Then , he said , he would endeavour to see her in the course of this day . ''  John Dashwood was really far from being sorry to see his sisters again ; it rather gave them satisfaction ; and his inquiries after their mother were respectful and attentive .  THE CHIMNEY SWEEPER A little black thing in the snow , Crying `` weep !  `` Come , '' said she , `` I will tell you something , in return for what you have told me .  I absolutely must go in by myself , though I hate being stuck up in the barouche-landau without a companion ; but Augusta , I believe , with her own good-will , would never stir beyond the park paling . '  `` My dear Isabella , '' -- exclaimed he hastily -- '' pray do not concern yourself about my looks .  And I must say that Lucy 's crossness not to take them along with them in the chaise is worse than all .  Perhaps I may sometimes have felt that Harriet would not forget what was due -- or rather what would be kind by me . ''  `` Then it is settled , Musgrove , '' cried Captain Wentworth , `` that you stay , and that I take care of your sister home .  `` No , you wo n't , '' said the little Red Hen .  `` What !  Elinor was half inclined to ask her reason for thinking so , because satisfied that none founded on an impartial consideration of their age , characters , or feelings , could be given ; -- but her mother must always be carried away by her imagination on any interesting subject , and therefore instead of an inquiry , she passed it off with a smile .  He begged their pardon , but he had forgotten his gloves , and instantly crossing the room to the writing table , he drew out a letter from under the scattered paper , placed it before Anne with eyes of glowing entreaty fixed on her for a time , and hastily collecting his gloves , was again out of the room , almost before Mrs Musgrove was aware of his being in it : the work of an instant !  It is a thing of course among us , that every man is refused , till he offers .  I came only for Willoughby 's sake -- and now who cares for me ?  and , in some points , there seems a hardness of heart about him . ''  Let my accents swell to Mickleham on one side , and Dorking on the other .  Let my father 's servant go with you. -- Let me order the carriage .  It was fun to catch the fish , and it was still more fun to eat them .  There were no leaves or green ones there .  Very odd !  said Anne .  Chapter 18  People who have extensive grounds themselves are always pleased with any thing in the same style . ''  Well , now , you hear me , Epaminondas , _you be careful how you step on those pies_ ! ''  Sir Walter was not very wise ; but still he had experience enough of the world to feel , that a more unobjectionable tenant , in all essentials , than Admiral Croft bid fair to be , could hardly offer .  The Elector assented , and the artist ordered a temporary screen to be built around the statue , so that his assistants could work undisturbed .  `` Dear me ! -- How should I ever have borne it !  The arrival of a new family in the country was always a matter of joy to him , and in every point of view he was charmed with the inhabitants he had now procured for his cottage at Barton .  `` It is over !  `` So my daughter Middleton told me , for it seems Sir John met him somewhere in the street this morning . ''  When Mr. Cole had moved away , and her attention could be restored as before , she saw Frank Churchill looking intently across the room at Miss Fairfax , who was sitting exactly opposite .  When she could let her attention take its natural course again , she found the Miss Musgroves just fetching the Navy List ( their own navy list , the first that had ever been at Uppercross ) , and sitting down together to pore over it , with the professed view of finding out the ships that Captain Wentworth had commanded .  A very friendly shake of the hand , a very earnest `` Good-bye , '' closed the speech , and the door had soon shut out Frank Churchill .  She will break it to you better than I can .  As the first sunbeams came over the hills , they shone on a great castle standing on the heights , as far away as the eye could see .  Then he began to laugh , as he thought of how funny Buster Bear had looked with the pail about his neck , and then because , you know he is learning to be a philosopher , he once more repeated , `` It might have been worse .  I doubt whether my own sense would have corrected me without it . ''  The worst of it was there wasn't another tree near enough for him to jump to .  `` The lady then -- Miss Grey I think you called her -- is very rich ? ''  To her father white Came the maiden bright ; But his loving look , Like the holy book All her tender limbs with terror shook .  You wrote me word of it three months ago . ''  `` It was a frightful hour , '' said he , `` a frightful day ! ''  `` And that will tempt YOU , Miss Marianne . ''  She explained the situation .  With such an opinion , in confirmation of his own , Mr. Woodhouse hoped to influence every visitor of the newly married pair ; but still the cake was eaten ; and there was no rest for his benevolent nerves till it was all gone .  One could not leave her out . ''  The decree is issued by somebody .  Look at my shoes .  Elinor blushed for the insincerity of Edward 's future wife , and replied , `` This compliment would effectually frighten me from giving any opinion on the subject had I formed one .  Jane looked as if she did not mean to be conquered ; but instead of answering , she began speaking again to Mr. John Knightley .  But I will try to command myself .  I assure you the utmost stretch of public fame would not make me amends for the loss of any happiness in private life . ''  The Christ Child did not forget the lovely sight , and long afterward he bade that to celebrate His birthday there should be placed in every house a Fir Tree , which might be lit up with candles to shine for the children as the stars shone for Him on His first birthday .  She was calm , except when she thought of her mother ; but she was almost hopeless ; and in this state she continued till noon , scarcely stirring from her sister 's bed , her thoughts wandering from one image of grief , one suffering friend to another , and her spirits oppressed to the utmost by the conversation of Mrs. Jennings , who scrupled not to attribute the severity and danger of this attack to the many weeks of previous indisposition which Marianne 's disappointment had brought on .  There is nobody in Highbury who deserves him -- and he has been here a whole year , and has fitted up his house so comfortably , that it would be a shame to have him single any longer -- and I thought when he was joining their hands to-day , he looked so very much as if he would like to have the same kind office done for him !  In speaking of the Harvilles , he seemed unable to satisfy his own sense of their kindness , especially of Mrs Harville 's exertions as a nurse .  `` He will sit poring over his book , and not know when a person speaks to him , or when one drop 's one 's scissors , or anything that happens .  Everybody grinned , for Blacky has played so many sharp tricks that no one is really his friend unless it is that other mischief-maker , Sammy Jay , who , you know , is Blacky 's cousin .  It was a much safer place for a gentleman in his predicament : he might there be important at comparatively little expense .  `` There is one thing , Emma , which a man can always do , if he chuses , and that is , his duty ; not by manoeuvring and finessing , but by vigour and resolution .  But how this is sweet maid , I know not , and I can not know I ponder , and I can not ponder ; yet I live and love .  Why should he marry ? -- He is as happy as possible by himself ; with his farm , and his sheep , and his library , and all the parish to manage ; and he is extremely fond of his brother 's children .  Then you rake very gently over the surface , with the back of a rake , to even it all off .  When she told Marianne what she had done , however , her first reply was not very auspicious .  It was so humiliating to reflect on the constant deception practised on her father and Elizabeth ; to consider the various sources of mortification preparing for them !  Do not let mine continue longer .  This tramped out a path just wide enough for a person to walk .  It was a child 's play , chosen to conceal a deeper game on Frank Churchill 's part .  Thou gentle maid of silent valleys and of modest brooks : For thou shall be clothed in light , and fed with morning manna : Till summers heat melts thee beside the fountains and the springs To flourish in eternal vales : they why should Thel complain .  She might talk on ; and if he wanted to say any thing himself , he would only talk louder , and drown her voice .  But then came the thought , `` He will never find us .  `` They are to be put into Mr. Weston 's stable , papa .  Her father -- and Harriet .  The giant said he did want one , if he could get one who would do everything that he would do himself .  said Lucy , as they walked up the stairs together -- for the Middletons arrived so directly after Mrs. Jennings , that they all followed the servant at the same time -- '' There is nobody here but you , that can feel for me. -- I declare I can hardly stand .  From Monday next to Saturday , I assure you we have not a disengaged day ! -- A woman with fewer resources than I have , need not have been at a loss . ''  `` My judgment , '' he returned , `` is all on your side of the question ; but I am afraid my practice is much more on your sister 's .  I planned the match from that hour ; and when such success has blessed me in this instance , dear papa , you can not think that I shall leave off match-making . ''  Mary , often a little unwell , and always thinking a great deal of her own complaints , and always in the habit of claiming Anne when anything was the matter , was indisposed ; and foreseeing that she should not have a day 's health all the autumn , entreated , or rather required her , for it was hardly entreaty , to come to Uppercross Cottage , and bear her company as long as she should want her , instead of going to Bath .  I suppose you know he wanted to marry Anne ? ''  `` That you may have less difficulty in believing this boast , of my present perfect indifference , '' she continued , `` I will farther tell you , that there was a period in the early part of our acquaintance , when I did like him , when I was very much disposed to be attached to him -- nay , was attached -- and how it came to cease , is perhaps the wonder .  He shared it , however , in a silence even greater than her own .  `` How very pleasing and proper of him ! ''  Mr. Elton made his appearance .  Another slice of cold meat , another draught of Madeira and water , will make you nearly on a par with the rest of us . ''  said Margery .  Anne 's object was , not to be in the way of anybody ; and where the narrow paths across the fields made many separations necessary , to keep with her brother and sister .  They would see , he said , only one gentleman there besides himself ; a particular friend who was staying at the park , but who was neither very young nor very gay .  THIS morning I had fully intended to call on you , if I could possibly find a spare half hour , but one has always so much to do on first coming to town .  `` It is charming weather for THEM indeed , '' she continued , as she sat down to the breakfast table with a happy countenance .  Gr-r-r-r ! ''  I knew the name , the place , I knew all about it , and instantly saw what she had been doing .  And he armed David with his own armour , -- he put a helmet of brass upon his head , and armed him with a coat of mail .  `` You will excuse my being so much over-powered .  Emma , finding her so determined upon neglecting her music , had nothing more to say ; and , after a moment 's pause , Mrs. Elton chose another subject .  When people come in this manner on purpose to ask us , how can one say no ? ''  My doctrine has never aimed at the subjection of the understanding .  She had imagined such difficulties of fortune to exist there as must prevent the marriage from being near at hand ; but she learned from Charles that , very recently , ( since Mary 's last letter to herself ) , Charles Hayter had been applied to by a friend to hold a living for a youth who could not possibly claim it under many years ; and that on the strength of his present income , with almost a certainty of something more permanent long before the term in question , the two families had consented to the young people 's wishes , and that their marriage was likely to take place in a few months , quite as soon as Louisa 's .  I do not mean to talk to you of what my feelings have been for him , but what they are NOW. -- At present , if I could be satisfied on one point , if I could be allowed to think that he was not ALWAYS acting a part , not ALWAYS deceiving me ; -- but above all , if I could be assured that he never was so VERY wicked as my fears have sometimes fancied him , since the story of that unfortunate girl '' --  They had travelled half their way along the rough lane , before she was quite awake to what they said .  my dear , ' says I , 'it is nothing in the world , but the red gum -- ' and nurse said just the same .  `` She will think Frank ought to ask her . ''  Then it was ready for raking and fertilising , and for the lines .  Something occurred , however , to give her a different duty .  You blush , Harriet. -- Does any body else occur to you at this moment under such a definition ?  In one respect Mrs. Elton grew even worse than she had appeared at first .  His want of spirits , of openness , and of consistency , were most usually attributed to his want of independence , and his better knowledge of Mrs. Ferrars 's disposition and designs .  `` I think every one MUST admire it , '' replied Elinor , `` who ever saw the place ; though it is not to be supposed that any one can estimate its beauties as we do . ''  I met _one_ as I came -- Madness in such weather ! -- absolute madness ! ''  Having alluded to `` an accident , '' he must hear the whole .  `` Your parish there was small , '' said Jane .  Do n't pretend to be in raptures about mine .  Exactly so , indeed -- quite unheard of -- but some ladies say any thing .  `` So prettily done !  Perry tells me that Mr. Cole never touches malt liquor .  This was a subject which ensured Marianne 's attention , and she was beginning to describe her own admiration of these scenes , and to question him more minutely on the objects that had particularly struck him , when Edward interrupted her by saying , `` You must not enquire too far , Marianne -- remember I have no knowledge in the picturesque , and I shall offend you by my ignorance and want of taste if we come to particulars .  But they always said , -- `` Oh , no , no ; you are too little ! ''  Those who are standing by are usually thinking of something very different . ''  They brought with them their country habit of being almost always together .  So far was she , at the same time , from any backwardness to give Elinor that credit which Edward WOULD give her , that she spoke of her friendship for them both with the most grateful warmth , was ready to own all their obligation to her , and openly declared that no exertion for their good on Miss Dashwood 's part , either present or future , would ever surprise her , for she believed her capable of doing any thing in the world for those she really valued .  He may live twenty years longer .  You and Mr. Elton are by situation called together ; you belong to one another by every circumstance of your respective homes .  Lucky fellow to get her !  replied Mrs. Weston , smiling , `` what is the certainty of caprice ? ''  Queen of the vales the Lily answered , ask the tender cloud , And it shall tell thee why it glitters in the morning sky .  `` 'And here I wait patiently .  When he began to swim he swam out to where the river was the very deepest .  I should certainly have called at Hartfield , had you failed to come . ''  Emma encouraged her talkativeness -- amused by such a picture of another set of beings , and enjoying the youthful simplicity which could speak with so much exultation of Mrs. Martin 's having `` _two_ parlours , two very good parlours , indeed ; one of them quite as large as Mrs. Goddard 's drawing-room ; and of her having an upper maid who had lived five-and-twenty years with her ; and of their having eight cows , two of them Alderneys , and one a little Welch cow , a very pretty little Welch cow indeed ; and of Mrs. Martin 's saying as she was so fond of it , it should be called _her_ cow ; and of their having a very handsome summer-house in their garden , where some day next year they were all to drink tea : -- a very handsome summer-house , large enough to hold a dozen people . ''  But they would have been improved by some share of his frankness and warmth ; and her visit was long enough to detract something from their first admiration , by shewing that , though perfectly well-bred , she was reserved , cold , and had nothing to say for herself beyond the most common-place inquiry or remark .  He looked surprised and said , `` I beg your pardon , I am afraid my inquiry has been impertinent ; but I had not supposed any secrecy intended , as they openly correspond , and their marriage is universally talked of . ''  We hear of him for ever at some watering-place or other .  To her it was real enjoyment to be with the Westons .  But best of all was the work next day , when her own little particular garden was begun .  High in the rank of her most serious and heartfelt felicities , was the reflection that all necessity of concealment from Mr. Knightley would soon be over .  Once she felt that he was looking at herself , observing her altered features , perhaps , trying to trace in them the ruins of the face which had once charmed him ; and once she knew that he must have spoken of her ; she was hardly aware of it , till she heard the answer ; but then she was sure of his having asked his partner whether Miss Elliot never danced ?  Yet , in spite of all this , Anne had reason to believe that she had moments only of languor and depression , to hours of occupation and enjoyment .  My heart was in Highbury , and my business was to get my body thither as often as might be , and with the least suspicion .  She thought it would be an excellent match ; and only too palpably desirable , natural , and probable , for her to have much merit in planning it .  She never could accept him .  How languid their conversation the last evening of their being together !  It was puzzling .  Anne had gone unhappy to school , grieving for the loss of a mother whom she had dearly loved , feeling her separation from home , and suffering as a girl of fourteen , of strong sensibility and not high spirits , must suffer at such a time ; and Miss Hamilton , three years older than herself , but still from the want of near relations and a settled home , remaining another year at school , had been useful and good to her in a way which had considerably lessened her misery , and could never be remembered with indifference .  He had his shepherd 's son into the parlour one night on purpose to sing to her .  `` She must have some motive , more powerful than appears , for refusing this invitation , '' was Emma 's conclusion .  Perry ! -- such attention to Jane ! ''  he exclaimed .  I meant to take them over to John Saunders the first thing I did , but something or other hindered me all the morning ; first one thing , then another , there is no saying what , you know .  When the ladies returned to the drawing-room after dinner , Emma found it hardly possible to prevent their making two distinct parties ; -- with so much perseverance in judging and behaving ill did Mrs. Elton engross Jane Fairfax and slight herself .  O life of this our spring !  `` Dating from three o'clock yesterday .  There could hardly be a happier creature in the world than Mrs. John Knightley , in this short visit to Hartfield , going about every morning among her old acquaintance with her five children , and talking over what she had done every evening with her father and sister .  Oh , my , no !  Her mind was inevitably at liberty ; her thoughts could not be chained elsewhere ; and the past and the future , on a subject so interesting , must be before her , must force her attention , and engross her memory , her reflection , and her fancy .  Captain Wentworth had no fortune .  Very soon after this wicked order , a boy baby was born in a certain Israelitish family .  But what a thing here is , by way of a boat !  More came , and more , and ever more , and as they came they spread out till they covered a big corner of the grain field .  I shall keep it only till you can claim it .  They stumble all night over bones of the dead ; And feel -- they know not what but care ; And wish to lead others , when they should be led .  Or art not thou A man like me ?  Lucy , who was hardly less anxious to please one parent than the other , thought the boys were both remarkably tall for their age , and could not conceive that there could be the smallest difference in the world between them ; and Miss Steele , with yet greater address gave it , as fast as she could , in favour of each .  Mr Shepherd was completely empowered to act ; and no sooner had such an end been reached , than Anne , who had been a most attentive listener to the whole , left the room , to seek the comfort of cool air for her flushed cheeks ; and as she walked along a favourite grove , said , with a gentle sigh , `` A few months more , and he , perhaps , may be walking here . ''  They seemed always to be finished , though , and Margery was always wishing she could see them grow .  `` But there , what _can_ you expect from a low , grovelling beetle ?  He rose from his seat , and walked to the window , apparently from not knowing what to do ; took up a pair of scissors that lay there , and while spoiling both them and their sheath by cutting the latter to pieces as he spoke , said , in a hurried voice ,  I am sure I do not know . ''  `` Last night , in Drury Lane lobby , I ran against Sir John Middleton , and when he saw who I was -- for the first time these two months -- he spoke to me. -- That he had cut me ever since my marriage , I had seen without surprise or resentment .  She had taken care to have the intelligence conveyed to herself , as soon as it was known that the ceremony was over , as she was desirous that Marianne should not receive the first notice of it from the public papers , which she saw her eagerly examining every morning .  Tea passed pleasantly , and nobody seemed in a hurry to move .  It would never do .  There was nothing in all this either to astonish or interest , and it caught Emma 's attention only as it united with the subject which already engaged her mind .  Lady Russell began talking of something else .  `` Charming Miss Woodhouse !  The hair was curled , and the maid sent away , and Emma sat down to think and be miserable. -- It was a wretched business indeed ! -- Such an overthrow of every thing she had been wishing for ! -- Such a development of every thing most unwelcome ! -- Such a blow for Harriet ! -- that was the worst of all .  You were kept waiting at the door -- I was quite ashamed -- but somehow there was a little bustle -- for it so happened that we had not heard the knock , and till you were on the stairs , we did not know any body was coming .  `` No , no ; you were better employed .  They must encounter each other , and make the best of it .  He immediately went into the passage , opened the front door , and ushered her in himself .  They talked for a few minutes more ; the improvement held ; he even looked down towards the bench , as if he saw a place on it well worth occupying ; when at that moment a touch on her shoulder obliged Anne to turn round .  At last , as Louisa thought about it , she came to care more about helping her mother and her father and her sisters than about anything else in all the world .  `` No , sir , '' she replied with firmness , `` I shall NOT stay .  Or , perhaps she may not have resources enough in herself to be qualified for a country life .  Had he never owned his affection to yourself ? ''  And is she , at seventeen , just entering into life , just beginning to be known , to be wondered at because she does not accept the first offer she receives ?  As Elinor was certain of seeing her in a couple of minutes , without taking that liberty , she begged to be excused .  If Mrs Clay were a very beautiful woman , I grant you , it might be wrong to have her so much with me ; not that anything in the world , I am sure , would induce my father to make a degrading match , but he might be rendered unhappy .  When he did return , he sought out the child and took notice of her .  I WILL be more collected -- more concise .  `` And so then , I suppose , '' said Mrs Musgrove , in a low voice , as if thinking aloud , `` so then he went away to the Laconia , and there he met with our poor boy .  Ten minutes would have been all that was necessary , perhaps all that was proper ; and I had told my father I should certainly be at home before him -- but there was no getting away , no pause ; and , to my utter astonishment , I found , when he ( finding me nowhere else ) joined me there at last , that I had been actually sitting with them very nearly three-quarters of an hour .  Never better. -- Do n't I hear another carriage ? -- Who can this be ? -- very likely the worthy Coles. -- Upon my word , this is charming to be standing about among such friends !  They were now joined by Mrs. Jennings , who had not patience enough to wait till the door was opened before she told HER story .  The neighbourhood was not large , but the Musgroves were visited by everybody , and had more dinner-parties , and more callers , more visitors by invitation and by chance , than any other family .  She was much pleased with their looks as they came from the shell .  Let me know what you think of this .  Frank Churchill placed a word before Miss Fairfax .  `` On the misery of what she had suffered , during the concealment of so many months , '' continued Mrs. Weston , `` she was energetic .  But after a while , when they saw that the king never moved , they got over their fright and went and sat on him .  Now will be the time .  They were of sobering tendency ; they allayed agitation ; they composed , and consequently must make her happier .  Granted ; -- for private enjoyment ; and for private enjoyment keep them .  It is the fault of her face that she has them not . ''  If one happens only to shut the door a little hard , she starts and wriggles like a young dab-chick in the water ; and Benwick sits at her elbow , reading verses , or whispering to her , all day long . ''  Elinor was hardly less anxious than herself for their removal , and only so much less bent on its being effected immediately , as that she was conscious of the difficulties of so long a journey , which Marianne could not be brought to acknowledge .  Does she never mean to go away ?  As long as Mr. Knightley remained with them , Emma 's fever continued ; but when he was gone , she began to be a little tranquillised and subdued -- and in the course of the sleepless night , which was the tax for such an evening , she found one or two such very serious points to consider , as made her feel , that even her happiness must have some alloy .  Mr. Weston would take no denial ; they must all dine at Randalls one day ; -- even Mr. Woodhouse was persuaded to think it a possible thing in preference to a division of the party .  `` Has he been here on this occasion -- or has he not ? ''  Have we not perfectly understood each other ?  He just chomped them all up together and patted his stomach from sheer delight .  `` Mr Elliot ! ''  And we agreed it would be best to have the harp , for it seems to amuse her more than the piano-forte .  Mr. Woodhouse agreed to it all , but added ,  CHAPTER XVIII  When it was sure that he could not live much longer , the people chose a new emperor and waited for the old one to die .  `` Oh !  And now I can see it in no other light than as an offering of love . ''  cluck ! ''  And with this pleasing anticipation , she sat down to reconsider the past , recall the words and endeavour to comprehend all the feelings of Edward ; and , of course , to reflect on her own with discontent .  Mrs. Hodges may well be angry .  She had no doubt of what Mr. Weston was often thinking about .  But when he found those berries he was so hungry that he forgot his fears and everything else .  She had not mistaken him .  His collar-bone was found to be dislocated , and such injury received in the back , as roused the most alarming ideas .  She gave him a brief reply .  He looked around , as if to see that no one were near , and then said ,  Most cordially , when Miss Bates arrived , did she agree that it must .  `` You are materially changed since we talked on this subject before . ''  Much better employed talking to the young ladies .  Elinor 's thoughts were full of what might be passing in Berkeley Street during their absence ; but a moment 's glance at her sister when they returned was enough to inform her , that Willoughby had paid no second visit there .  I shall certainly go ; I am sure I ought if I can , quite as much as Charles , for they want me excessively to be acquainted with Captain Wentworth , and I know you do not mind being left alone .  He had given her some hints of it the last spring in town ; he had gone so far even as to say , `` Can we retrench ?  `` I flatter myself , '' replied Elinor , `` that even under the disadvantage of better rooms and a broader staircase , you will hereafter find your own house as faultless as you now do this . ''  It was not to oblige Jane Fairfax therefore that he would have preferred the society of William Larkins .  the little blackberry-bush is alive and beautiful and green .  `` Hello ! ''  Mr. Woodhouse was resigned .  Sir John was a sportsman , Lady Middleton a mother .  `` Just as they always do -- very vulgar . ''  When the seeds were in the trenches they had to be covered up , and Margery really helped at that .  I dare say the Colonel will leave her all his fortune . ''  They had been grinding out wealth and happiness and peace , but now they bade the magic stones to grind something very different .  He thought we walked towards Randalls most days .  Elinor , startled by his manner , looked at him anxiously , saying ,  She had a cultivated mind , and was , generally speaking , rational and consistent ; but she had prejudices on the side of ancestry ; she had a value for rank and consequence , which blinded her a little to the faults of those who possessed them .  it would have been a happy thing , if he had never left you .  He sat really lost in thought for the first few minutes ; and when rousing himself , it was only to say ,  Mrs. Stokes , ' said I -- but I had not time for more . ''  The prospect before her now , was threatening to a degree that could not be entirely dispelled -- that might not be even partially brightened .  She cared not for Mrs Clay , and had nothing to blush for in the public manners of her father and sister .  Let the Tiger eat the Brahmin ! ''  --  You can not go to town till tomorrow , Brandon , that is all . ''  Mrs. Perry was always particularly fond of my mother -- indeed I do not know who is not -- and she had mentioned it to her in confidence ; she had no objection to her telling us , of course , but it was not to go beyond : and , from that day to this , I never mentioned it to a soul that I know of .  He had the air of congratulating himself on having brought such a woman to Highbury , as not even Miss Woodhouse could equal ; and the greater part of her new acquaintance , disposed to commend , or not in the habit of judging , following the lead of Miss Bates 's good-will , or taking it for granted that the bride must be as clever and as agreeable as she professed herself , were very well satisfied ; so that Mrs. Elton 's praise passed from one mouth to another as it ought to do , unimpeded by Miss Woodhouse , who readily continued her first contribution and talked with a good grace of her being `` very pleasant and very elegantly dressed . ''  A little farther out , the fox said , `` I am afraid the water will cover you , there ; jump on my shoulder . ''  I am sure I do not know who is not . ''  Harriet did think him all perfection , and maintained the non-existence of any body equal to him in person or goodness -- and did , in truth , prove herself more resolutely in love than Emma had foreseen ; but yet it appeared to her so natural , so inevitable to strive against an inclination of that sort _unrequited_ , that she could not comprehend its continuing very long in equal force .  I praised the fair lady too , and altogether sent him away very happy .  They were all disengaged and all happy. -- The preparatory interest of this dinner , however , was not yet over .  I declare they are quite charming ; I could look at them for ever . ''  .  `` You are better placed _here_ ; very fit for a wife , but not at all for a governess .  Her approbation , at once general and minute , warm and incessant , could not but please ; and for another half-hour they were all walking to and fro , between the different rooms , some suggesting , some attending , and all in happy enjoyment of the future .  And what do you think !  There was no more crossness in that house .  Her father 's feelings were quite distinct .  Somehow , time is the hardest thing in the world to remember , when you are having a good time .  repeated Elinor within herself , regarding her sister with uneasiness .  And , upon my word , he is nothing to me .  `` Now , mother , do n't you fret , '' said the little father Jackal ; `` you do just as I tell you , and it will be all right . ''  When the tailor was a day gone , himself and his wife , they repented and followed him to take his wife away from him again .  `` Ah !  Thank Heaven !  This man is an impostor , who has stolen my throne .  `` It can not be generally known , '' returned Elinor , `` for her own family do not know it . ''  Miss Fairfax , you must not run such risks. -- Liable as you have been to severe colds , indeed you ought to be particularly careful , especially at this time of year .  I am sure of having their opinions with me . ''  One of the little girls was dressed up to look like Jack , and she acted that part .  SONGS OF INNOCENCE INTRODUCTION Piping down the valleys wild , Piping songs of pleasant glee , On a cloud I saw a child , And he laughing said to me : `` Pipe a song about a Lamb ! ''  Fairy Candide stood before him .  They appear to so much advantage in company with each other .  `` Me ! ''  He little surmised that it was a subject acting now exactly against his interest , bringing immediately to her thoughts all those parts of his conduct which were least excusable .  Emma got up on the morrow more disposed for comfort than she had gone to bed , more ready to see alleviations of the evil before her , and to depend on getting tolerably out of it .  Overhead , the blazing sun shone in all his noonday glory .  Why Mr. Ferrars was to have been written to about it in such a hurry , she could not immediately comprehend .  `` Oh !  snows a little I see . ''  The wedding was very much like other weddings , where the parties have no taste for finery or parade ; and Mrs. Elton , from the particulars detailed by her husband , thought it all extremely shabby , and very inferior to her own. -- '' Very little white satin , very few lace veils ; a most pitiful business ! -- Selina would stare when she heard of it . ''  Mrs. Jennings left them earlier than usual ; for she could not be easy till the Middletons and Palmers were able to grieve as much as herself ; and positively refusing Elinor 's offered attendance , went out alone for the rest of the morning .  Towards her husband and mother she was the same as to them ; and intimacy was therefore neither to be looked for nor desired .  `` Perhaps , '' continued Elinor , `` if I should happen to cut out , I may be of some use to Miss Lucy Steele , in rolling her papers for her ; and there is so much still to be done to the basket , that it must be impossible I think for her labour singly , to finish it this evening .  To be sure , twice every year , when they killed a sheep for food , they gave half to their poorer neighbours .  It is very plain that he considers the good fortune of the engagement as all on my side , but that he is not without hope of my growing , in time , as worthy of your affection , as you think me already .  I have heard her every year of our lives since we both began .  The little Country Mouse was glad to do this , and after a while he went to the city to visit his friend .  `` Oh !  CHAPTER 33  There the same thing happened .  `` I never should have presumed to think of it at first , '' said she , `` but for you .  He could not forgive her , but he could not be unfeeling .  I shall talk about it to him ; he will settle for me ; he will help me out of all my difficulties . '  The part which provoked her most , was that in all this waste of foresight and caution , she should have lost the right moment for seeing whether he saw them .  how those little fingers of yours fly about ! ''  She was , besides , which was the worst of all , so cold , so cautious !  The cold insolence of Mrs. Ferrars 's general behaviour to her sister , seemed , to her , to foretell such difficulties and distresses to Elinor , as her own wounded heart taught her to think of with horror ; and urged by a strong impulse of affectionate sensibility , she moved after a moment , to her sister 's chair , and putting one arm round her neck , and one cheek close to hers , said in a low , but eager , voice ,  I give this explanation that the reader may know I do not presume to offer the little tale which follows as an `` adaptation '' of Andersen's famous story .  `` Poor old gentleman . ''  She always had something to say , and she liked to hear herself say it .  I admire all that quaint , old-fashioned politeness ; it is much more to my taste than modern ease ; modern ease often disgusts me .  The window at which he stood was at the other end of the room from where the two ladies were sitting , and though nearer to Captain Wentworth 's table , not very near .  Pitying , I dropped a tear : But I saw a glow-worm near , Who replied , `` What wailing wight Calls the watchman of the night ?  It was dreadfully mortifying ; but Mr. Elton was proving himself , in many respects , the very reverse of what she had meant and believed him ; proud , assuming , conceited ; very full of his own claims , and little concerned about the feelings of others .  So altered -- so faded -- worn down by acute suffering of every kind !  I can not get him out of my head , but you must send for him to Barton , and Miss Marianne must try to comfort him . ''  They think Charles might not be learned and bookish enough to please Lady Russell , and that therefore , she persuaded Anne to refuse him . ''  Then he spoke out pleasantly .  Emma smiled , and felt that Mr. Weston had very good reason for saying so .  If , however , I am allowed to think that you and yours feel an interest in my fate and actions , it may be the means -- it may put me on my guard -- at least , it may be something to live for .  Ladies can never look ill. And , seriously , Miss Fairfax is naturally so pale , as almost always to give the appearance of ill health. -- A most deplorable want of complexion . ''  `` I think her beautiful , quite beautiful . ''  It had that appearance .  he continued ; `` every day more precious and more delightful than the day before ! -- every day making me less fit to bear any other place .  `` A straightforward , open-hearted man like Weston , and a rational , unaffected woman like Miss Taylor , may be safely left to manage their own concerns .  Every attention is due to Mr Elliot .  Certainly , delicate ladies have very extraordinary constitutions , Mrs. Elton .  I shall leave you together .  `` I shall hear about you all , '' said he ; `` that is my chief consolation .  He must think himself a most agreeable fellow ; I could not do such a thing .  This conviction , though not entirely satisfactory , gave her pleasure , and she continued her letter with greater alacrity .  I hope I can allow for him .  His imprudence had made her miserable for a while ; but it seemed to have deprived himself of all chance of ever being otherwise .  You , who have been hearing and seeing so much of late on these subjects , who must have been so deep in the business on Miss Campbell 's account -- we shall not excuse your being indifferent about Mr. Elton and Miss Hawkins . ''  His complexion was white with agitation , and he looked as if fearful of his reception , and conscious that he merited no kind one .  `` I think , Harriet , since your acquaintance with us , you have been repeatedly in the company of some such very real gentlemen , that you must yourself be struck with the difference in Mr. Martin .  He did not come however .  She would not stir a step , nor drop a hint .  Still , however , he was not happy .  The merest awkward country girl , without style , or elegance , and almost without beauty. -- I remember her perfectly .  Bird 's delight , Day and night , Nightingale , In the dale , Lark in sky , -- Merrily , Merrily merrily , to welcome in the year .  All that sounded extravagant or irrational in the progress of the reconciliation might have no origin but in the language of the relators .  `` Westgate Buildings ! ''  Mrs. Dashwood , too happy to be comfortable , knew not how to love Edward , nor praise Elinor enough , how to be enough thankful for his release without wounding his delicacy , nor how at once to give them leisure for unrestrained conversation together , and yet enjoy , as she wished , the sight and society of both .  The two mothers , though each really convinced that her own son was the tallest , politely decided in favour of the other .  They were alike too , in a general benevolence of temper , and a strong habit of regard for every old acquaintance .  He grasped it , thankfully , and started to mount his donkey .  This is a point which you must settle with your feelings . ''  Every emendation of Anne 's had been on the side of honesty against importance .  --  But my mother , my dearest , kindest mother , -- I feel the justice of what Elinor has urged , and if she were to be made less happy , less comfortable by our absence -- Oh !  The laurels at Maple Grove are in the same profusion as here , and stand very much in the same way -- just across the lawn ; and I had a glimpse of a fine large tree , with a bench round it , which put me so exactly in mind !  Which thou dost scatter on every little blade of grass that springs Revives the milked cow , & tames the fire-breathing steed .  I hope he will come tonight .  Let the Tiger eat the Brahmin . ''  `` He lives down there , Father Lion ! ''  He was always agreeable and obliging , and speaking pleasantly of every body .  In that very room she had been measured last September , with her two friends .  Mr. Wingfield told me that he has never known them more general or heavy -- except when it has been quite an influenza . ''  When Blacky and Sammy saw him coming , they moved a little farther in to the Green Forest , still screaming in the most excited way .  it is no difficulty to see who you take after !  She must be taken to their house ; all must go to their house ; and await the surgeon 's arrival there .  I could not excuse a man 's having more music than love -- more ear than eye -- a more acute sensibility to fine sounds than to my feelings .  how good it sounds ! ''  Leave it all to me .  Harriet 's features are very delicate , which makes a likeness difficult ; and yet there is a peculiarity in the shape of the eye and the lines about the mouth which one ought to catch . ''  `` It is a sort of thing , '' cried Mrs. Elton emphatically , `` which _I_ should not have thought myself privileged to inquire into .  Mrs. Weston , kind-hearted and musical , was particularly interested by the circumstance , and Emma could not help being amused at her perseverance in dwelling on the subject ; and having so much to ask and to say as to tone , touch , and pedal , totally unsuspicious of that wish of saying as little about it as possible , which she plainly read in the fair heroine 's countenance .  `` I think very differently , '' answered Elizabeth , shortly ; `` an agreeable manner may set off handsome features , but can never alter plain ones .  `` I can not be bothered with you ; I am off to Madrid , to see the King ! ''  `` Upon my soul , '' he added , `` I believe it is nothing more ; and so I often tell my mother , when she is grieving about it .  She persisted in a very determined , though very silent disinclination for Bath ; caught the first dim view of the extensive buildings , smoking in rain , without any wish of seeing them better ; felt their progress through the streets to be , however disagreeable , yet too rapid ; for who would be glad to see her when she arrived ?  `` My dear madam , '' said Lady Middleton , `` recollect what you are saying . ''  David heard this , and he asked the men if it were so .  `` But I am afraid , Mr. Elton , Harriet will not like to sit .  But these measures , however good in themselves , were insufficient for the real extent of the evil , the whole of which Sir Walter found himself obliged to confess to her soon afterwards .  I am sure she will be as happy to see her friends at Highbury , as they can be to see her .  `` Very serious !  The shoemaker and his wife looked at each other , and said , `` How can we thank the little elves who have made us happy and prosperous ? ''  Her voice sunk with the word , but presently reviving she added ,  But everybody else helped too .  The King of Sicily went , with all his soldiers and courtiers and servants , -- a great procession of horsemen and footmen .  Mr. Elton cared little about it , compared with his wife ; he only hoped `` the young lady 's pride would now be contented ; '' and supposed `` she had always meant to catch Knightley if she could ; '' and , on the point of living at Hartfield , could daringly exclaim , `` Rather he than I ! ''  In a country life I conceive it to be a sort of necessary ; for , let a woman have ever so many resources , it is not possible for her to be always shut up at home ; -- and very long walks , you know -- in summer there is dust , and in winter there is dirt . ''  Do not you think so ? ''  Could anything be so flattering as Mrs. Ferrars 's way of treating me yesterday ?  `` But , Harriet , is it necessary to burn the court-plaister ? -- I have not a word to say for the bit of old pencil , but the court-plaister might be useful . ''  Well , Frank , your dream certainly shews that Highbury is in your thoughts when you are absent .  `` Well -- but if any difficulties should arise , my housekeeper is extremely clever . ''  Elinor was disappointed too ; but at the same time her regard for Colonel Brandon ensured his welcome with her ; and she felt particularly hurt that a man so partial to her sister should perceive that she experienced nothing but grief and disappointment in seeing him .  Elinor , who knew that such grief , shocking as it was to witness it , must have its course , watched by her till this excess of suffering had somewhat spent itself , and then turning eagerly to Willoughby 's letter , read as follows :  The great harp recognised its master 's voice , and leaped from the wall .  The original was all her own -- her own happy thoughts and gentle diction .  `` You mean to return a favourable answer , I collect . ''  I never was equal to this . ''  With strong concern , and with many reproaches for not being called to their aid , did Mrs. Jennings hear in the morning of what had passed .  He must know that the Woodhouses had been settled for several generations at Hartfield , the younger branch of a very ancient family -- and that the Eltons were nobody .  When the birds came flying into the woods and lit on the branches of the big trees and built their nests there , he used to call up to them , -- `` Come down , come down , rest in my branches ! ''  `` Hush !  `` It was an awkward business , my dear , your spending the autumn at South End instead of coming here .  --  And now to be so rewarded !  `` Why , a big , ordinary cage , an iron cage , '' said the Brahmin .  `` What can bring her here so often ? ''  `` You are never like me , dear Elinor , or I should wonder at your composure now .  Somebody else believed _Mrs_ .  She knew who had been frequenting Uppercross .  `` And so you do not consider this visit from your son as by any means certain .  `` 'Twill be a fine thing to have her married so young to be sure , '' said she , `` and I hear he is quite a beau , and prodigious handsome .  But after all the punishment that misconduct can bring , it is still not less misconduct .  At last , there came a little rustling , whispering sound , all round the window : _rustle , whisper , whisper_ .  `` I do not wonder Captain Wentworth is delighted !  ( looking round with the most good-humoured dependence on every body 's assent ) -- Do not you all think I shall ? ''  Yes , Sir , I need a change .  I can not think of it. -- It wo n't do. -- Then came your dear mother to torture me farther , with all her kindness and confidence .  repeated Mrs. Elton .  Everybody bought it , and much money came from it .  I know what thorough justice you will do it , and have scarcely a doubt of its happy effect. -- I think we shall never materially disagree about the writer again ; but I will not delay you by a long preface. -- We are quite well. -- This letter has been the cure of all the little nervousness I have been feeling lately. -- I did not quite like your looks on Tuesday , but it was an ungenial morning ; and though you will never own being affected by weather , I think every body feels a north-east wind. -- I felt for your dear father very much in the storm of Tuesday afternoon and yesterday morning , but had the comfort of hearing last night , by Mr. Perry , that it had not made him ill. `` Yours ever , `` A. W . ''  `` This is very terrible , '' said the little Country Mouse ; `` let us not go back to the cupboard again . ''  as for me , my judgment is worth nothing .  He said a lot of unkind things about Buster Bear and about Billy Mink and Grandfather Frog and Jerry Muskrat , because they had laughed at the smartness of Buster .  A present of fifty pounds , now and then , will prevent their ever being distressed for money , and will , I think , be amply discharging my promise to my father . ''  said Edward , willing to say any thing that might introduce another subject .  Emma Woodhouse , handsome , clever , and rich , with a comfortable home and happy disposition , seemed to unite some of the best blessings of existence ; and had lived nearly twenty-one years in the world with very little to distress or vex her .  `` Do come with me , '' said Mrs. Weston , `` if it be not very disagreeable to you .  `` I think her all you describe .  `` Has she ? ''  But indeed , while Elinor remained so well assured within herself of being really beloved by Edward , it required no other consideration of probabilities to make it natural that Lucy should be jealous ; and that she was so , her very confidence was a proof .  Louisa liked to sit in a corner by herself , sometimes , and write thoughts in her diary ; all the little girls kept diaries .  `` Did you tell her that you should soon return ? ''  And the clown answered , very sadly , that it was just as it looked , -- a life of foolish tricks , for that was the only way of earning his bread that he knew .  `` But still , not near enough to give me a chance of being right , if we think differently . ''  How much could it not tempt her to forgive !  He laughed rather consciously ; and though denying the sentiment , Emma was convinced that it had been so .  He is no hypocrite now .  Even in Europe there are not many monuments to women , and most of the few are to great queens or princesses , very beautiful and very richly dressed .  Sweet moan , sweeter smile , All the dovelike moans beguile .  Knightley immediately got up , and in a manner decidedly graver than usual , said ,  so long ago as the 7th of November , ( as I am going to read to you , ) and has never been well since .  `` It 's the old Alligator , '' he said , `` and if I do n't make an end of him this time he will certainly make an end of me .  `` Me , '' said Little Joe in a rather faint voice .  `` In a stationer 's shop in Pall Mall , where I had business .  I am sure I would rather do any thing in the world than be thought so by a person whose good opinion is so well worth having as yours .  `` You may believe how glad we all were to see them , '' added Mrs. Jennings , leaning forward towards Elinor , and speaking in a low voice as if she meant to be heard by no one else , though they were seated on different sides of the room ; `` but , however , I ca n't help wishing they had not travelled quite so fast , nor made such a long journey of it , for they came all round by London upon account of some business , for you know ( nodding significantly and pointing to her daughter ) it was wrong in her situation .  One thing only was wanting to make the prospect of the ball completely satisfactory to Emma -- its being fixed for a day within the granted term of Frank Churchill 's stay in Surry ; for , in spite of Mr. Weston 's confidence , she could not think it so very impossible that the Churchills might not allow their nephew to remain a day beyond his fortnight .  He advised her against it , thought the jar too great ; but no , he reasoned and talked in vain , she smiled and said , `` I am determined I will : '' he put out his hands ; she was too precipitate by half a second , she fell on the pavement on the Lower Cobb , and was taken up lifeless !  Behind the cottage were apple trees , a plum tree , and two or three pear trees ; then came a stretch of rough grass , and then a stone wall , with a gate leading into the fields .  She could not help thinking much of the extraordinary circumstances attending their acquaintance , of the right which he seemed to have to interest her , by everything in situation , by his own sentiments , by his early prepossession .  `` A very pretty trick you have been playing me , upon my word !  She felt herself a most fortunate woman ; and she had lived long enough to know how fortunate she might well be thought , where the only regret was for a partial separation from friends whose friendship for her had never cooled , and who could ill bear to part with her .  And for love of this friend , the king of Egypt had let numbers of the Israelites settle in his land .  In fact , he did n't want that pail at all .  I shall , therefore , set off to-morrow . '  He cut her short with ,  Edward was allowed to retain the privilege of first comer , and Colonel Brandon therefore walked every night to his old quarters at the Park ; from whence he usually returned in the morning , early enough to interrupt the lovers ' first tete-a-tete before breakfast .  He agreed to it , but with so quiet a `` Yes , '' as inclined her almost to doubt his real concurrence ; and yet there must be a very distinct sort of elegance for the fashionable world , if Jane Fairfax could be thought only ordinarily gifted with it .  I have no objections at all to meeting the Hartfield family .  I have now a key to all her odd looks and ways .  One night he had made his mother roll him about , till she fell asleep , and even then he kept crying , `` Roll me around !  The little Jackal had no mind to wait for his slow friend ; he wanted to be off home again , about his business .  `` Not I , '' said the Goose .  Of very important , very recordable events , it was not more productive than such meetings usually are .  `` You had better order the carriage directly , my love , '' said she ; `` I dare say we shall be able to get along , if we set off directly ; and if we do come to any thing very bad , I can get out and walk .  More than former happiness would be restored .  Her kind , compassionate visits to this old schoolfellow , sick and reduced , seemed to have quite delighted Mr Elliot .  If there had not been so much anger , there would have been desperate awkwardness ; but their straightforward emotions left no room for the little zigzags of embarrassment .  roll me around ! ''  `` For when a lady 's in the case , `` You know all other things give place . ''  I honestly said as much to Mr. E. when he was speaking of my future home , and expressing his fears lest the retirement of it should be disagreeable ; and the inferiority of the house too -- knowing what I had been accustomed to -- of course he was not wholly without apprehension .  Elinor tenderly invited her to be open .  I seem to have been distressing you for nothing .  And he is as much bigger than you as you are bigger than I !  But I shall see them tomorrow . ''  It was now some time since Miss Taylor had begun to influence his schemes ; but as it was not the tyrannic influence of youth on youth , it had not shaken his determination of never settling till he could purchase Randalls , and the sale of Randalls was long looked forward to ; but he had gone steadily on , with these objects in view , till they were accomplished .  Heir to Sir Walter Elliot !  Your home , country , friends , all quitted .  It is his own idea .  Your person , your disposition , accomplishments , manner ; they were all present to me . ''  Elinor flattered herself that some one of their connections in London would write to them to announce the event , and give farther particulars , -- but day after day passed off , and brought no letter , no tidings .  I should myself have shrunk from any thing so hasty , and she would have felt every scruple of mine with multiplied strength and refinement. -- But I had no choice .  To Miss --  Canariensis is a pretty creeper with golden blossoms , very dainty and bright .  They had gone only a little way when Billy Mink whispered : `` Sh-h !  They never miss a concert . ''  So she opened the door a little wee crack , and in they came .  Mrs. Elton was spoken of .  They delighted in flying about through the Green Forest until they had found Buster Bear and then from the safety of the tree tops screaming at him .  `` You have nothing to offer .  very true indeed .  `` I am sure , '' said she , `` I have no doubt in the world of your faithfully keeping this secret , because you must know of what importance it is to us , not to have it reach his mother ; for she would never approve of it , I dare say .  So the little Country Mouse went back to his home , and there he stayed all the rest of his life .  he screamed .  It is not to be supposed that any prior attachment on your side -- in short , you know as to an attachment of that kind , it is quite out of the question , the objections are insurmountable -- you have too much sense not to see all that .  He had a very long way to go , up hill , and the little Red Hen was still so dizzy that she did n't know where she was .  `` He has , he has , '' cried Marianne , `` I am sure he has .  Mrs. Jennings and Mrs. Palmer joined their entreaties , all seemed equally anxious to avoid a family party ; and the young ladies were obliged to yield .  I have no patience with him .  `` I am glad to know that , father , '' said Margery , soberly .  said she .  `` Open the windows ! -- but surely , Mr. Churchill , nobody would think of opening the windows at Randalls .  But as he turned his head , he felt the coarse straw under his cheek instead of the soft pillow , and he saw that he was in the stable , with the shivering ape by his side .  His own stomach could bear nothing rich , and he could never believe other people to be different from himself .  But Farmer Brown 's boy did n't know anything about Old Man Coyote .  Ah !  So much was pretty soon understood ; but till Sir Walter and Elizabeth were walking Mary into the other drawing-room , and regaling themselves with her admiration , Anne could not draw upon Charles 's brain for a regular history of their coming , or an explanation of some smiling hints of particular business , which had been ostentatiously dropped by Mary , as well as of some apparent confusion as to whom their party consisted of .  `` And for your own sake too , or you are carrying your disinterestedness beyond reason . ''  It was a gentleman 's carriage , a curricle , but only coming round from the stable-yard to the front door ; somebody must be going away .  `` I hope so , dear , '' he said ; `` the country is a good place for little girls . ''  If the Westons think it worth while to be at all this trouble for a few hours of noisy entertainment , I have nothing to say against it , but that they shall not chuse pleasures for me. -- Oh !  Buster clawed at that awful thing on his head more frantically than ever .  `` Dear Edward ! ''  `` She had set out from Mrs. Goddard 's half an hour ago -- she had been afraid it would rain -- she had been afraid it would pour down every moment -- but she thought she might get to Hartfield first -- she had hurried on as fast as possible ; but then , as she was passing by the house where a young woman was making up a gown for her , she thought she would just step in and see how it went on ; and though she did not seem to stay half a moment there , soon after she came out it began to rain , and she did not know what to do ; so she ran on directly , as fast as she could , and took shelter at Ford 's . ''  THE NIGHTINGALE A long , long time ago , as long ago as when there were fairies , there lived an emperor in China , who had a most beautiful palace , all made of crystal .  The rest was all tranquillity ; till , just as they were moving , she heard the Admiral say to Mary --  For HIM she felt much compassion ; -- for Lucy very little -- and it cost her some pains to procure that little ; -- for the rest of the party none at all .  At last Miss Elliot and her friend , unattended but by the servant , ( for there was no cousin returned ) , were walking off ; and Captain Wentworth , watching them , turned again to Anne , and by manner , rather than words , was offering his services to her .  And I assure you I never was better pleased in my life , and I wish you joy of it with all my heart . ''  Wax-candles in the schoolroom !  Anne had the whole history of all that such an evening could supply from Lady Russell .  Either from the consciousness , however , that his friend had recovered , or from other consciousness , he went no farther ; and Anne who , in spite of the agitated voice in which the latter part had been uttered , and in spite of all the various noises of the room , the almost ceaseless slam of the door , and ceaseless buzz of persons walking through , had distinguished every word , was struck , gratified , confused , and beginning to breathe very quick , and feel an hundred things in a moment .  Where would be the use of his bringing us a charade made by a friend upon a mermaid or a shark ?  About noon , however , she began -- but with a caution -- a dread of disappointment which for some time kept her silent , even to her friend -- to fancy , to hope she could perceive a slight amendment in her sister 's pulse ; -- she waited , watched , and examined it again and again ; -- and at last , with an agitation more difficult to bury under exterior calmness , than all her foregoing distress , ventured to communicate her hopes .  `` Yes -- I _have_ called there ; passing the door , I thought it better .  The style of the letter was much above her expectation .  Elinor , nothing can .  Presently Buster heard light footsteps , and peeping out , he saw Billy Mink and Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare and Prickly Porky and Reddy Fox and Jimmy Skunk .  I know the danger of indulging such speculations .  if you have not got your spotted muslin on ! -- I wonder you was not afraid of its being torn . ''  It was a happy circumstance , and animated Mr. Woodhouse for some time .  `You _must_ _all_ spend your evening with us , ' said she -- `I positively must have you _all_ come . ' ''  It was an office in short , from which , unwilling to give Edward the pain of receiving an obligation from HER , she would have been very glad to be spared herself ; -- but Colonel Brandon , on motives of equal delicacy , declining it likewise , still seemed so desirous of its being given through her means , that she would not on any account make farther opposition .  Till this year , every long vacation since their marriage had been divided between Hartfield and Donwell Abbey ; but all the holidays of this autumn had been given to sea-bathing for the children , and it was therefore many months since they had been seen in a regular way by their Surry connexions , or seen at all by Mr. Woodhouse , who could not be induced to get so far as London , even for poor Isabella 's sake ; and who consequently was now most nervously and apprehensively happy in forestalling this too short visit .  She had only meant to oppose the too common idea of spirit and gentleness being incompatible with each other , not at all to represent Captain Benwick 's manners as the very best that could possibly be ; and , after a little hesitation , she was beginning to say , `` I was not entering into any comparison of the two friends , '' but the Admiral interrupted her with --  Lord !  Will it make you happy ?  `` Yes , you have certainly removed something -- a little. -- You have proved yourself , on the whole , less faulty than I had believed you .  `` She seems a most valuable woman indeed -- Her house , her style of living , all bespeak an exceeding good income ; and it is an acquaintance that has not only been of great use to you hitherto , but in the end may prove materially advantageous. -- Her inviting you to town is certainly a vast thing in your favour ; and indeed , it speaks altogether so great a regard for you , that in all probability when she dies you will not be forgotten. -- She must have a great deal to leave . ''  In the few minutes ' conversation which she had yet had with him , while Harriet had been partially insensible , he had spoken of her terror , her naivete , her fervour as she seized and clung to his arm , with a sensibility amused and delighted ; and just at last , after Harriet 's own account had been given , he had expressed his indignation at the abominable folly of Miss Bickerton in the warmest terms .  Then they said , -- `` Poke your head through ! ''  Four-and-twenty hours later , and I should only have been a gallant Captain Wentworth , in a small paragraph at one corner of the newspapers ; and being lost in only a sloop , nobody would have thought about me . ''  here is the charade you were so obliging as to leave with us ; thank you for the sight of it .  But then Patty came in , and said it was you .  Ol ' Mistah Buzzard began to grin as soon as he saw that tin pail on Buster 's neck .  So ended the first part , which had been afterwards put into an envelope , containing nearly as much more .  `` Insufferable woman ! ''  When the Woodpecker came , he said to him , `` Was it you who sounded the war-gong ? ''  `` In all these cases , there are established usages which make everything plain and easy between landlord and tenant .  `` But how came the hand to discompose you so much , if it was only a letter of business ?  `` Prisoned on watery shore , Starry jealousy does keep my den Cold and hoar ; Weeping o 're , I hear the father of the ancient men .  Emma could not doubt .  You do us justice , indeed .  His visit he would now defer ; but they had a very interesting parley about what could be done and should be done .  `` Make a hole and let out the broth again , '' said the tailor .  Your ideas are only more noble than mine .  Elinor was obliged , though unwillingly , to believe that the sentiments which Mrs. Jennings had assigned him for her own satisfaction , were now actually excited by her sister ; and that however a general resemblance of disposition between the parties might forward the affection of Mr. Willoughby , an equally striking opposition of character was no hindrance to the regard of Colonel Brandon .  And he wanted to get wings and a tail So he did get some wings and a tail .  `` Have you been lately in Sussex ? ''  `` There , exactly there , '' -- pointing with one hand , `` on that projecting mound , -- there I fell ; and there I first saw Willoughby . ''  Now you are to understand , that time had worked a very material change in Mr Elliot 's opinions as to the value of a baronetcy .  `` My expressions startle you .  Cherry was wild with delight .  By his own marriage , likewise , which happened soon afterwards , he added to his wealth .  MY gratitude will be insured immediately by any information tending to that end , and HERS must be gained by it in time .  I made the best excuses I could for not having been able to wait on him and Mrs. Elton on this happy occasion ; I said that I hoped I _should_ in the course of the summer .  I can not tell you how much Louisa suffered over this .  I could rather believe every creature of my acquaintance leagued together to ruin me in his opinion , than believe his nature capable of such cruelty .  Little Mr Field Mouse ran to the root and poked his nose under after the acorn , and there he saw a small round hole in the ground .  `` It is my duty , and I am sure it is my wish , '' she continued , `` to have no reserves with you on this subject .  I should not go , you may be sure , if I did not feel quite at ease about my dear child . ''  Fanny looked very angry too , and her husband was all in a fright at his sister 's audacity .  To give the feelings or the language of Mrs. Dashwood on receiving and answering Elinor 's letter would be only to give a repetition of what her daughters had already felt and said ; of a disappointment hardly less painful than Marianne 's , and an indignation even greater than Elinor 's .  On the subject of the first of the two circumstances , she did , after a little reflection , venture the following question .  `` I shall always be very sorry that you went to the sea this autumn , instead of coming here . ''  Once the Otter came to the Mouse-deer and said , `` Friend Mouse-deer , will you please take care of my babies while I go to the river , to catch fish ? ''  -- repeated Frank Churchill , with a look of surprize and displeasure. -- `` That is easy -- but Miss Fairfax does not disapprove it , I suppose . ''  But so little interest had be taken in the matter , that he owed all his knowledge of the house , garden , and glebe , extent of the parish , condition of the land , and rate of the tithes , to Elinor herself , who had heard so much of it from Colonel Brandon , and heard it with so much attention , as to be entirely mistress of the subject .  But unfortunately my own nicety , and the nicety of my friends , have made me what I am , an idle , helpless being .  One morning , about a week after his leaving the country , Marianne was prevailed on to join her sisters in their usual walk , instead of wandering away by herself .  `` No , ma'am -- the horses were just coming out , but I could not bide any longer ; I was afraid of being late . ''  said he , colouring a little .  The list she drew up when only fourteen -- I remember thinking it did her judgment so much credit , that I preserved it some time ; and I dare say she may have made out a very good list now .  Marianne could not bear this. -- She was already greatly displeased with Mrs. Ferrars ; and such ill-timed praise of another , at Elinor 's expense , though she had not any notion of what was principally meant by it , provoked her immediately to say with warmth ,  Elinor , though never less disposed to speak than at that moment , obliged herself to answer such an attack as this , and , therefore , trying to smile , replied , `` And have you really , Ma'am , talked yourself into a persuasion of my sister 's being engaged to Mr. Willoughby ?  I nod to him , and he looks at me .  They were stopping , however , in the first place at Mrs. Bates 's ; whose house was a little nearer Randalls than Ford 's ; and had all but knocked , when Emma caught their eye. -- Immediately they crossed the road and came forward to her ; and the agreeableness of yesterday 's engagement seemed to give fresh pleasure to the present meeting .  Every one in the villages through which they passed ran after the jester , and pointed and laughed .  At the same time , the hermit stood up , his flowing hair changed to shining gold , and his face became a lovely woman 's face ; it was the Fairy Candide .  However , when I found how excessively he was regretting that he should miss my father this morning , I gave way immediately , for I would never really omit an opportunity of bring him and Sir Walter together .  That brother had been long removed from the country and being a sensible man , and , moreover , a single man at the time , she had a fond dependence on no human creature 's having heard of it from him .  `` What 's he doing ? ''  It was mere lively chat , such as any young persons , on an intimate footing , might fall into .  In the drawing-room , whither she then repaired , she was soon joined by Mrs. Jennings , with a wine-glass , full of something , in her hand .  Unwelcome as it was , Mr. Woodhouse could only give a submissive sigh ; and as Emma saw his spirits affected by the idea of his daughter 's attachment to her husband , she immediately led to such a branch of the subject as must raise them .  What the devil does Sir John mean by not having a billiard room in his house ?  Mrs. Ferrars was a little , thin woman , upright , even to formality , in her figure , and serious , even to sourness , in her aspect .  `` Marianne is as steadfast as ever , you see , '' said Elinor , `` she is not at all altered . ''  And the happy Little Fir Tree spent all his time wondering what it could be that he was just little enough for ; he knew it could hardly be a mast or a house , since he was going away with children .  Their gentleness , their genuine attention to other people , and their manly unstudied simplicity is much more accordant with her real disposition , than the liveliness -- often artificial , and often ill-timed of the other .  You know we have settled all that already .  Think she must of the possible difference to the poor little boy ; and yet she only gave herself a saucy conscious smile about it , and found amusement in detecting the real cause of that violent dislike of Mr. Knightley 's marrying Jane Fairfax , or any body else , which at the time she had wholly imputed to the amiable solicitude of the sister and the aunt .  You will tell Sir Walter what we have done , and that Mr Shepherd thinks it the greatest improvement the house ever had .  They do everything to confer happiness , I am sure .  When they had gone a little way , they heard a cow moo .  Emma smiled and chatted as cheerfully as she could , to keep him from such thoughts ; but when tea came , it was impossible for him not to say exactly as he had said at dinner ,  Now that I am old and weak and can not work , he leaves me without food or water , to die by the wayside .  VIII FARMER BROWN 'S BOY FEELS HIS HAIR RISE 'T was just a sudden odd surprise Made Farmer Brown 's boy 's hair to rise .  And straight-way he humped himself up and moved , and sent the little figs flying , -- and his back showed through .  said Marianne , on her leaving them .  `` No , no !  `` Yes , yes , I see you are .  She felt that Mrs Musgrove and all her party ought to be asked to dine with them ; but she could not bear to have the difference of style , the reduction of servants , which a dinner must betray , witnessed by those who had been always so inferior to the Elliots of Kellynch .  Harriet was not insensible of manner ; she had voluntarily noticed her father 's gentleness with admiration as well as wonder .  How do you do , Miss Smith ? -- Very well I thank you. -- And I begged Mrs. Weston to come with me , that I might be sure of succeeding . ''  Circumstances that might swell to half an hour 's relation , and contained multiplied proofs to her who had seen them , had passed undiscerned by her who now heard them ; but the two latest occurrences to be mentioned , the two of strongest promise to Harriet , were not without some degree of witness from Emma herself. -- The first , was his walking with her apart from the others , in the lime-walk at Donwell , where they had been walking some time before Emma came , and he had taken pains ( as she was convinced ) to draw her from the rest to himself -- and at first , he had talked to her in a more particular way than he had ever done before , in a very particular way indeed ! -- ( Harriet could not recall it without a blush . )  `` Did you see her often at Weymouth ?  THE LITTLE VAGABOND Dear mother , dear mother , the Church is cold ; But the Alehouse is healthy , and pleasant , and warm .  What Edward had done to forfeit the right of eldest son , might have puzzled many people to find out ; and what Robert had done to succeed to it , might have puzzled them still more .  Anne could not immediately get over the shock and mortification of finding such words applied to her father .  This moment , if you please .  The Middletons and Palmers -- how am I to bear their pity ?  In comparison of Norland , it was poor and small indeed ! -- but the tears which recollection called forth as they entered the house were soon dried away .  We have cleared away all the old thorns that grew in patches over the brow . ''  One of those points on which his influence failed , he then mentioned .  `` You shall ; and , to be brief , when I quitted Barton last October , -- but this will give you no idea -- I must go farther back .  An account of the concert was immediately claimed ; and Anne 's recollections of the concert were quite happy enough to animate her features and make her rejoice to talk of it .  The most indefatigable , true friend .  `` Perhaps you mean -- my brother -- you mean Mrs. -- Mrs. ROBERT Ferrars . ''  Elinor was not prepared for such a question , and having no answer ready , was obliged to adopt the simple and common expedient , of asking what he meant ?  I assure you I feel it none .  After one of the many praises of the day , which were continually bursting forth , Captain Wentworth added : --  He is n't one tenth so quick tempered as Chatterer the Red Squirrel , or Sammy Jay , or Reddy Fox .  What do you think ?  Seated in companies they sit , with radiance all their own .  Mrs. Jennings immediately whispered to Elinor ,  Mrs. Dashwood looked at Elinor with surprise .  The old Alligator turned in the mud , and grunted , and snorted ; then he said , -- `` I lie here in the mud all day , as harmless as a pigeon ; I hunt no man , yet every time a man sees me , he throws stones at me , and pokes me with sharp sticks , and jeers at me .  It is fit that the fortune should be on his side , for I think the merit will be all on hers . ''  Sure somebody else might be found that would do as well ; somebody that is in orders already . ''  One can not wonder , one can not wonder .  That is the reason of her writing out of rule , as we call it ; for , in the common course , we should not have heard from her before next Tuesday or Wednesday . ''  Mrs. Weston said no more ; and Emma could imagine with what surprize and mortification she must be returning to her seat .  It was within four miles northward of Exeter .  `` No , I can not go to Cleveland . ''  `` I do not know. -- One of the Otways. -- Not Frank ; -- it is not Frank , I assure you .  His sister had a letter from him yesterday , in which he tells us of it , and he had just had it in a letter from Harville , written upon the spot , from Uppercross .  Make a light ! ''  And so well was she able to answer her own expectations , that when she joined them at dinner only two hours after she had first suffered the extinction of all her dearest hopes , no one would have supposed from the appearance of the sisters , that Elinor was mourning in secret over obstacles which must divide her for ever from the object of her love , and that Marianne was internally dwelling on the perfections of a man , of whose whole heart she felt thoroughly possessed , and whom she expected to see in every carriage which drove near their house .  Frank was next to Emma , Jane opposite to them -- and Mr. Knightley so placed as to see them all ; and it was his object to see as much as he could , with as little apparent observation .  She would rather busy herself about any thing than speak .  She was obliged to break off from these very pleasant observations , which were otherwise of a sort to run into great length , by the eagerness of Harriet 's wondering questions .  Margery thought , of course , all the flowers would be put in as the vegetables were ; but she found that it was not so .  `` Not in the stage , I assure you , '' replied Miss Steele , with quick exultation ; `` we came post all the way , and had a very smart beau to attend us .  dear !  Now Buster Bear may be big and clumsy looking , but there is n't anything that can move much quicker than one of those big paws of his when he wants it to .  `` If you could be assured of that , you think you should be easy . ''  `` I have just been thinking of Betty 's sister , my dear .  `` Poor girl ! ''  Not so the Miss Steeles. -- They came from Exeter , well provided with admiration for the use of Sir John Middleton , his family , and all his relations , and no niggardly proportion was now dealt out to his fair cousins , whom they declared to be the most beautiful , elegant , accomplished , and agreeable girls they had ever beheld , and with whom they were particularly anxious to be better acquainted. -- And to be better acquainted therefore , Elinor soon found was their inevitable lot , for as Sir John was entirely on the side of the Miss Steeles , their party would be too strong for opposition , and that kind of intimacy must be submitted to , which consists of sitting an hour or two together in the same room almost every day .  He gave her a very plain , intelligible account of the whole ; a narration in which she saw a great deal of most characteristic proceeding .  My father certainly could mean nothing more by his request to me than what you say .  The anxious interval wore away unproductively .  He was silent .  The time of year lightened the evil to him .  there he is .  It was misery to think of Mr Elliot 's attentions .  -- And Emma distinctly heard him add , in a lower tone , before he quitted the room , -- '' I have been as good as my word .  However , she is very agreeable , and Mrs. Bates too , in a different way .  My playing is no more like her 's , than a lamp is like sunshine . ''  He had n't run , but he had wanted to .  It is very difficult for the prosperous to be humble .  Then when the work was over , the tailor went to the king and told him to give him his wife and his money , as he had the court finished ; and the king said he would not give him any wife until he had killed the other giant , for he said that it was not by his strength he had killed the two giants before , and that he would give him nothing now until he killed the other one for him .  `` They were no more your fish than mine , '' protested Billy Mink .  The consciousness of having done amiss , had exposed her to a thousand inquietudes , and made her captious and irritable to a degree that must have been -- that had been -- hard for him to bear .  `` If I had set my heart on Mr. Elton 's marrying Harriet , it would have been very kind to open my eyes ; but at present I only want to keep Harriet to myself .  And he saw something else in the Old Pasture that made his smile still broader .  phoo ! ''  But from such vain wishes she was forced to turn for comfort to the renewal of her confidence in Edward 's affection , to the remembrance of every mark of regard in look or word which fell from him while at Barton , and above all to that flattering proof of it which he constantly wore round his finger .  Instances have been known of young people passing many , many months successively , without being at any ball of any description , and no material injury accrue either to body or mind ; -- but when a beginning is made -- when the felicities of rapid motion have once been , though slightly , felt -- it must be a very heavy set that does not ask for more .  Anne will not be sorry to join us , I am sure .  Mrs. Elton , as elegant as lace and pearls could make her , he looked at in silence -- wanting only to observe enough for Isabella 's information -- but Miss Fairfax was an old acquaintance and a quiet girl , and he could talk to her .  The case , you see , is -- ( but this is quite between ourselves : I did not mention a syllable of it in the other room .  She had seen the same Frederick Wentworth .  Colonel Brandon 's partiality for Marianne , which had so early been discovered by his friends , now first became perceptible to Elinor , when it ceased to be noticed by them .  I think you must know Hartfield enough to comprehend that . ''  He had a very fine flock , and , while she was with them , he had been bid more for his wool than any body in the country .  He ran after it , but it kept rolling on , just ahead of him , till it came to a place where a big oak-tree had its roots spread all over the ground .  He is the man you seek ; his soul has grown to the selfsame stature as your own ; his treasure on the celestial shore is neither less than yours nor more . ''  I can give him good advice , reprove him when he does wrong , and punish him if he will not punish himself ; I can and will be his best friend , but I can not make him good unless he wills it . ''  I give you credit for it .  I am afraid his circumstances may be bad .  More and more I push forth my leaves , till out I burst in a gay green dress , and nod in joy and pride .  `` Yet I hardly know how , '' cried Marianne , `` unless it had been under totally different circumstances .  If Jemima were not the trustiest , steadiest creature in the world , it would be enough to spoil her ; for she tells me , they are always tempting her to take a walk with them . ''  I am not afraid of your not being exceedingly comfortable with Mrs. Goddard .  `` We can tell better how great it is when we hear what it is , '' replied Grandfather Frog testily .  But first of all , there must be an answer written to Mrs .  `` Thank you , ma'am , '' said Elinor .  Elton had just joined them , and his wife was exclaiming ,  Jane 's solicitude about fetching her own letters had not escaped Emma .  He might even have Harriet in his thoughts at the moment ; who could say ?  It was more than any self-respecting Bear could stand .  I hope , from the bottom of my heart , he wo n't keep her waiting much longer , for it is quite grievous to see her look so ill and forlorn .  He should have respected even unreasonable scruples , had there been such ; but hers were all reasonable .  So I became a clown , and must be a clown until I die . ''  Fanny paused a moment , and then , with fresh vigor , said ,  And , in short -- what do you think of my wife 's style of letter-writing ? -- delicate -- tender -- truly feminine -- was it not ? ''  `` Oh !  `` Family connexions were always worth preserving , good company always worth seeking ; Lady Dalrymple had taken a house , for three months , in Laura Place , and would be living in style .  Mr. Cole gave me a hint of it six weeks ago . ''  I have great hope of prevailing .  Did not you observe her manner of answering me ?  In the present instance , this last-arrived lady allowed her fancy to so far outrun truth and probability , that on merely hearing the name of the Miss Dashwoods , and understanding them to be Mr. Dashwood 's sisters , she immediately concluded them to be staying in Harley Street ; and this misconstruction produced within a day or two afterwards , cards of invitation for them as well as for their brother and sister , to a small musical party at her house .  An unpretending , single-minded , artless girl -- infinitely to be preferred by any man of sense and taste to such a woman as Mrs. Elton .  or `` How shall I do that ? ''  Knightley. -- Were this most unequal of all connexions to take place , on her must rest all the reproach of having given it a beginning ; for his attachment , she must believe to be produced only by a consciousness of Harriet 's ; -- and even were this not the case , he would never have known Harriet at all but for her folly .  Weston. -- `` Very well , I thank you , ma'am .  no , that must have been quite accidental .  `` You mean , '' answered Elinor , with forced calmness , `` Mr. Willoughby 's marriage with Miss Grey .  `` And I , Mr. Knightley , am equally stout in my confidence of its not doing them any harm .  There was one person among his new acquaintance in Surry , not so leniently disposed .  `` Yes , '' said he , `` very true ; here we separate , but Harville and I shall soon be after you ; that is , Harville , if you are ready , I am in half a minute .  `` And mine , '' said Mr. Knightley warmly , `` is , that if he turn out any thing like it , he will be the most insufferable fellow breathing !  Can you imagine any thing nearer perfect beauty than Emma altogether -- face and figure ? ''  `` Though we have seen him once or twice at my uncle 's , it is rather too much to pretend to know him very well . ''  Dixon . ''  Sleep , sleep , happy child !  When that was once done , however , it was time for the raptures of Edward to cease ; for Marianne 's joy hurried her into the drawing-room immediately .  Now if Chatterer had only known it , Buster Bear could n't reach him way up there , because the tree was too small at the top for such a big fellow as Buster .  Leave shame to her .  So he left his gifts in the hands of the keeper of the baggage , and ran into the army , amongst the soldiers , to find his brothers .  `` At any rate , '' said Elinor , wishing to prevent Mrs. Jennings from seeing her sister 's thoughts as clearly as she did , `` I dare say we shall have Sir John and Lady Middleton in town by the end of next week . ''  `Old fellow ! '  `` Perhaps it is to tell you that your cousin Fanny is married ? ''  Hello ! ''  evil to some is always good to others .  I see no sign of attachment -- I believe nothing of the pianoforte -- and proof only shall convince me that Mr. Knightley has any thought of marrying Jane Fairfax . ''  `` Very odd !  I shall see you at the Abbey to-morrow morning I hope , and then we will look them over , and you shall give me your opinion . ''  From you , her mother , and so kind , so indulgent a mother , the question could not give offence .  `` Our dear Willoughby is now some miles from Barton , Elinor , '' said she , as she sat down to work , `` and with how heavy a heart does he travel ? ''  Unjust I may have been , weak and resentful I have been , but never inconstant .  He knew of no one but Mrs. Goddard to whom he could apply for information of her relations or friends .  When the Great Lizard came , he asked him , `` Was it you who were wearing your sword ? ''  If he were quite sincere , if he really tried to come , it was to be inferred that Mrs. Churchill 's removal to London had been of no service to the wilful or nervous part of her disorder .  The idea of great big Buster Bear getting drowned in the Laughing Brook was too funny .  I am sure you did not much expect to like us .  Pretty soon she heard the sweet little rustling noise at the keyhole .  All that she could tell she told most gladly , but the all was little for one who had been there , and unsatisfactory for such an enquirer as Mrs Smith , who had already heard , through the short cut of a laundress and a waiter , rather more of the general success and produce of the evening than Anne could relate , and who now asked in vain for several particulars of the company .  * * * * * Then the wee boy smiled , and said he liked the little story .  Her mother , still confident of their engagement , and relying as warmly as ever on his constancy , had only been roused by Elinor 's application , to intreat from Marianne greater openness towards them both ; and this , with such tenderness towards her , such affection for Willoughby , and such a conviction of their future happiness in each other , that she wept with agony through the whole of it .  you are not serious now .  Your sister is an amiable creature ; but yours is the character of decision and firmness , I see .  The rest of the gentlemen being now in the room , Emma found herself obliged to turn from him for a few minutes , and listen to Mr. Cole .  For the world would not she have seemed to threaten me. -- Imagine the shock ; imagine how , till I had actually detected my own blunder , I raved at the blunders of the post. -- What was to be done ? -- One thing only. -- I must speak to my uncle .  Mr. Knightley returned to his reading with greater alacrity .  The little Gingerbread Boy jumped on his back .  Duty , affection , every thing was disregarded .  -- No , no ; they were shut up in the drawing-room together , and all I heard was only by listening at the door . ''  Their minds most dissimilar !  Do n't let her imagine that you have spoken of her as a pretty young woman . ''  Towards this home , she began on the approach of January to turn her thoughts , and thither she one day abruptly , and very unexpectedly by them , asked the elder Misses Dashwood to accompany her .  Supper was announced .  And so he thaught and thaught , Until he grew so thin That there was nothin ' left of him But jist his bones and shkin .  One shoulder of mutton , you know , drives another down .  It does relate to him , and I will tell you directly ; '' ( resuming her work , and seeming resolved against looking up . )  Marianne 's eagerness to be gone declared her dependence on finding him there ; and Elinor was resolved not only upon gaining every new light as to his character which her own observation or the intelligence of others could give her , but likewise upon watching his behaviour to her sister with such zealous attention , as to ascertain what he was and what he meant , before many meetings had taken place .  `` Miss Fairfax was not well enough to write ; '' and when Mr. Perry called at Hartfield , the same morning , it appeared that she was so much indisposed as to have been visited , though against her own consent , by himself , and that she was suffering under severe headaches , and a nervous fever to a degree , which made him doubt the possibility of her going to Mrs. Smallridge 's at the time proposed .  His aunt could not bear to have him leave her .  `` My first enjoyment , '' replied John Knightley , as they passed through the sweep-gate , `` will be to find myself safe at Hartfield again . ''  And not only did it appear that he was expected , and speedily , but the Musgroves , in their warm gratitude for the kindness he had shewn poor Dick , and very high respect for his character , stamped as it was by poor Dick 's having been six months under his care , and mentioning him in strong , though not perfectly well-spelt praise , as `` a fine dashing felow , only two perticular about the schoolmaster , '' were bent on introducing themselves , and seeking his acquaintance , as soon as they could hear of his arrival .  I 'd rather have barley and grain to eat and eat it in peace and comfort , than have brown sugar and dried prunes and cheese , -- and be frightened to death all the time ! ''  `` Now you do that , '' said he .  Mr. Woodhouse taken from Hartfield ! -- No , he felt that it ought not to be attempted .  `` I have a garden !  I can much more readily enter into the temptation of getting away from Miss Bates , than I can believe in the triumph of Miss Fairfax 's mind over Mrs. Elton .  However , _I_ shall always think it a very pleasant party , and feel extremely obliged to the kind friends who included me in it . ''  Cole . ''  Down , down , down he sailed and landed on his feet .  In irregular patches on the row , hints of green were coming .  `` With dark narrow stairs and a kitchen that smokes , I suppose , '' said Elinor .  cried Elizabeth , `` I have been rather too much used to the game to be soon overcome by a gentleman 's hints .  Emma had as much reason to be satisfied with the rest of the party as with Mr. Knightley .  However , I do n't think her hardly at all handsomer than you , I assure you ; for I think you both excessively pretty , and so does Mr. Palmer too I am sure , though we could not get him to own it last night . ''  That 's just what I 'll do .  `` Forgive me , forgive me , '' throwing her arms round her sister 's neck ; `` I know you feel for me ; I know what a heart you have ; but yet you are -- you must be happy ; Edward loves you -- what , oh what , can do away such happiness as that ? ''  `` Huh ! ''  Leopards , tigers , play Round her as she lay ; While the lion old Bowed his mane of gold , And her breast did lick And upon her neck , From his eyes of flame , Ruby tears there came ; While the lioness Loosed her slender dress , And naked they conveyed To caves the sleeping maid .  `` Very well -- and for the next presentation to a living of that value -- supposing the late incumbent to have been old and sickly , and likely to vacate it soon -- he might have got I dare say -- fourteen hundred pounds .  Your meaning must be unequivocal ; no doubts or demurs : and such expressions of gratitude and concern for the pain you are inflicting as propriety requires , will present themselves unbidden to _your_ mind , I am persuaded .  In a minute the little Red Hen came quickly in , and shut the door and locked it .  But remember that the pain of parting from friends will be felt by every body at times , whatever be their education or state .  That she was not immediately ready , Emma did suspect to arise from the state of her nerves ; she had not yet possessed the instrument long enough to touch it without emotion ; she must reason herself into the power of performance ; and Emma could not but pity such feelings , whatever their origin , and could not but resolve never to expose them to her neighbour again .  `` I thank you ; but I assure you you are quite mistaken .  Oh !  She has talked of it since .  I should scold her myself , if she were capable of wishing to check the delight of your conversation with our new friend . ''  After some attempts , therefore , to be permitted to begin again , they were obliged to thank Mrs. Weston , look sorrowful , and have done .  When she thought about the book she remembered the good times she used to have with her sisters in the big , bare house in the country .  XXIII FARMER BROWN 'S BOY LUNCHES ON BERRIES When things go wrong in spite of you To smile 's the best thing you can do -- To smile and say , `` I 'm mighty glad They are no worse ; they 're not so bad ! ''  He stays till to-morrow , and Miss Fairfax has been persuaded to spend the day with us. -- They are coming in , I hope . ''  The next moment she was tapping at her husband 's dressing-room door , and as Anne followed her up stairs , she was in time for the whole conversation , which began with Mary 's saying , in a tone of great exultation --  He was not handsome , and his manners required intimacy to make them pleasing .  Margaret returned , and the family were again all restored to each other , again quietly settled at the cottage ; and if not pursuing their usual studies with quite so much vigour as when they first came to Barton , at least planning a vigorous prosecution of them in future .  `` No , '' replied Elinor , most feelingly sensible of every fresh circumstance in favour of Lucy 's veracity ; `` I remember he told us , that he had been staying a fortnight with some friends near Plymouth . ''  She said no more , other subjects took their turn ; and the rest of the dinner passed away ; the dessert succeeded , the children came in , and were talked to and admired amid the usual rate of conversation ; a few clever things said , a few downright silly , but by much the larger proportion neither the one nor the other -- nothing worse than everyday remarks , dull repetitions , old news , and heavy jokes .  Marianne 's illness , though weakening in its kind , had not been long enough to make her recovery slow ; and with youth , natural strength , and her mother 's presence in aid , it proceeded so smoothly as to enable her to remove , within four days after the arrival of the latter , into Mrs. Palmer 's dressing-room .  There has been a solemn engagement between them ever since October -- formed at Weymouth , and kept a secret from every body .  `` No , '' said Emma , laughing ; `` but perhaps there might be some made to his coming back again .  Cruel , cruel -- nothing can acquit you .  This living of Colonel Brandon 's -- can it be true ? -- has he really given it to Edward ? -- I heard it yesterday by chance , and was coming to you on purpose to enquire farther about it . ''  Elinor saw , with great uneasiness the low spirits of her friend .  A butcher hard by in the village , and the parsonage-house within a stone 's throw .  I do not see it . ''  She asked after their mutual friends ; they were all well. -- When had he left them ? -- Only that morning .  Though WE have not known him long , he is no stranger in this part of the world ; and who has ever spoken to his disadvantage ?  John loves Emma with a reasonable and therefore not a blind affection , and Isabella always thinks as he does ; except when he is not quite frightened enough about the children .  good I am sure. -- I see it in your countenance .  Little Elsa cried bitterly when he was gone , for she did not want to make her husband unhappy and cross , and she wanted the house to look nice .  Ford. -- `` Yes -- no -- yes , to Mrs. Goddard 's .  I hate him !  `` We have killed the great Lion who would have killed us !  I feel that all the apologies should be on my side .  `` I should always be happy , '' replied Elinor , `` to show any mark of my esteem and friendship for Mr. Ferrars ; but do you not perceive that my interest on such an occasion would be perfectly unnecessary ?  Take a box for to-morrow night !  `` No -- I shall not stir .  His extreme attention to my mother -- wanting her to sit in the vicarage pew , that she might hear the better , for my mother is a little deaf , you know -- it is not much , but she does not hear quite quick .  When they heard that , gently , gently , the Fomorian women bowed their heads in slumber ; the little children crept to their mothers ' laps ; the old men nodded ; and the young warriors drooped in their seats and closed their eyes : one after another all the Fomorians sank into sleep .  It seemed as if her eyes were suddenly opened , and she were enabled to see that Mr. Elton was not the superior creature she had believed him .  He wandered about uneasily .  `` Colonel Brandon , I think , lodges in St. James Street , '' said he , soon afterwards , rising from his chair .  It is a pity you can not put your sister in the way of managing them .  I must think your statement by no means fair .  Blacky the Crow shook his head and winked .  But I have no idea that she has yet ever seen a man she cared for .  So very odd we should happen to meet !  `` I should not wonder , '' said Mrs. Weston , `` if Miss Fairfax were to have been drawn on beyond her own inclination , by her aunt 's eagerness in accepting Mrs. Elton 's civilities for her .  When the dessert and the wine were arranged , and Mrs. Dashwood and Elinor were left by themselves , they remained long together in a similarity of thoughtfulness and silence .  He did not think we ever walked this road .  Mrs. Jennings , however , with a kindness of heart which made Elinor really love her , declared her resolution of not stirring from Cleveland as long as Marianne remained ill , and of endeavouring , by her own attentive care , to supply to her the place of the mother she had taken her from ; and Elinor found her on every occasion a most willing and active helpmate , desirous to share in all her fatigues , and often by her better experience in nursing , of material use .  That she is old and sickly .  Henrietta , conscious and ashamed , and seeing no cousin Charles walking along any path , or leaning against any gate , was ready to do as Mary wished ; but `` No ! ''  Altogether she was quite convinced of Harriet Smith 's being exactly the young friend she wanted -- exactly the something which her home required .  `` I should love a salad garden . ''  `` Agreed , '' said the Sun .  Let him die ! ''  `` What an exquisite possession a good picture of her would be !  `` Very bad -- though it might have been worse. -- Playing a most dangerous game .  If Colonel Campbell is not the person , who can be ? ''  My dear cousin '' ( sitting down by her ) , `` you have a better right to be fastidious than almost any other woman I know ; but will it answer ?  Mr. and Mrs. Redwing were there , and Blacky the Crow was sitting in the Big Hickory-tree .  I went .  The wonder was , how any family upon earth could bear with the inconvenience of its opening as it did , so long !  THE SUN AND THE WIND The Sun and the Wind once had a quarrel as to which was the stronger .  I do not scruple to say that she plays extremely well .  If the strength of your reciprocal attachment had failed , as between many people , and under many circumstances it naturally would during a four years ' engagement , your situation would have been pitiable , indeed . ''  Elinor assured him that she did ; -- that she forgave , pitied , wished him well -- was even interested in his happiness -- and added some gentle counsel as to the behaviour most likely to promote it .  `` Will you give me the Emperor 's sceptre for another song ? ''  Mr. Suckling , who has been eleven years a resident at Maple Grove , and whose father had it before him -- I believe , at least -- I am almost sure that old Mr. Suckling had completed the purchase before his death . ''  But when they got there the boy laughed at them for their pains ; there was no wolf there .  Then , here come all my attempts at three of those four children ; -- there they are , Henry and John and Bella , from one end of the sheet to the other , and any one of them might do for any one of the rest .  `` Whenever the time may come , it must be unwelcome to her and all her friends -- but I hope her engagement will have every alleviation that is possible -- I mean , as to the character and manners of the family . ''  CHAPTER II  He is just as superior as ever ; -- but being married , you know , it is quite a different thing .  He really pressed them , with some earnestness , to consider Norland as their home ; and , as no plan appeared so eligible to Mrs. Dashwood as remaining there till she could accommodate herself with a house in the neighbourhood , his invitation was accepted .  `` I could see it in his face .  One man 's ways may be as good as another 's , but we all like our own best .  `` I was just hoping that he would come near enough for me to snap him up ; then he would belong to me .  I am extremely sorry for it -- for I know him to be a very good-hearted creature ; as well-meaning a fellow perhaps , as any in the world .  She speaks a little too quick .  When he got home , the puppy-dog was dead .  I dare say they often think of you , and wonder which will be the day , the precise day of the instrument 's coming to hand .  made her quite sorry to acknowledge that they had transcribed it some pages ago already .  `` Are you ill , Miss Dashwood ? -- you seem low -- you do n't speak ; -- sure you a n't well . ''  From a reverie of this kind she was recalled at the end of some minutes by Willoughby , who , rousing himself from a reverie at least equally painful , started up in preparation for going , and said --  Many had looked on each other , and many had repeated the name , before all this had been got through , even by the smart rapidity of a waiter .  As John Dashwood had no more pleasure in music than his eldest sister , his mind was equally at liberty to fix on any thing else ; and a thought struck him during the evening , which he communicated to his wife , for her approbation , when they got home .  As he spoke , the giant stood still , on the hillside opposite the host of Israel , and shouted his challenge , scornfully .  I assure you , Miss Woodhouse , it is very delightful to me , to be reminded of a place I am so extremely partial to as Maple Grove .  She had not been able to speak ; and , on entering the carriage , sunk back for a moment overcome -- then reproaching herself for having taken no leave , making no acknowledgment , parting in apparent sullenness , she looked out with voice and hand eager to shew a difference ; but it was just too late .  It was a right thing to do .  He had thought her wretchedly altered , and in the first moment of appeal , had spoken as he felt .  `` Much , indeed ! ''  Perhaps you might notice the ring when you saw him ? ''  Keep the girl in a dungeon till she does as you command , and if she will not , sell her as a slave . ''  She had only two daughters , both of whom she had lived to see respectably married , and she had now therefore nothing to do but to marry all the rest of the world .  She might never have thought of him but for me ; and certainly never would have thought of him with hope , if I had not assured her of his attachment , for she is as modest and humble as I used to think him .  He had no sooner been free from the horror and remorse attending the first few days of Louisa 's accident , no sooner begun to feel himself alive again , than he had begun to feel himself , though alive , not at liberty .  Her character was now fixed on his mind as perfection itself , maintaining the loveliest medium of fortitude and gentleness ; but he was obliged to acknowledge that only at Uppercross had he learnt to do her justice , and only at Lyme had he begun to understand himself .  I hear you have a charming collection of new ribbons from town .  for shame !  No one , I believe , can blame her more than she is disposed to blame herself .  I am resolved to have some in an ornament for the head .  And it promised to be so exciting that everybody promised to be there , that is , everybody but Grandfather Frog and Spotty the Turtle , who did n't care to go so far away from the Smiling Pool .  no -- I would get you a better partner than myself .  My esteem for your whole family is very sincere ; but if I have been so unfortunate as to give rise to a belief of more than I felt , or meant to express , I shall reproach myself for not having been more guarded in my professions of that esteem .  `` Yes , Sir , I 'm going fishing .  But Thel is like a faint cloud kindled at the rising sun : I vanish from my pearly throne , and who shall find my place .  Penelope , my dear , can you help me to the name of the gentleman who lived at Monkford : Mrs Croft 's brother ? ''  A widow Mrs Smith ; and who was her husband ?  Well now , I think we had better turn back ; I am excessively tired . ''  Harriet Smith was the natural daughter of somebody .  Real , long-standing regard brought the Westons and Mr. Knightley ; and by Mr. Elton , a young man living alone without liking it , the privilege of exchanging any vacant evening of his own blank solitude for the elegancies and society of Mr. Woodhouse 's drawing-room , and the smiles of his lovely daughter , was in no danger of being thrown away .  You are never sure of a good impression being durable ; everybody may sway it .  Your friend will not take it amiss I hope .  `` In short , '' said he , `` perhaps , Miss Woodhouse -- I think you can hardly be quite without suspicion '' --  `` Come , come , '' cried Emma , feeling this to be an unsafe subject , `` I must beg you not to talk of the sea .  `` Yes , '' said he , smiling .  It soon flies over the present failure , and begins to hope again .  `` I have no conception whom you can mean , Shepherd ; I remember no gentleman resident at Monkford since the time of old Governor Trent . ''  In every cry of every man , In every infant 's cry of fear , In every voice , in every ban , The mind-forged manacles I hear : How the chimney-sweeper 's cry Every blackening church appals , And the hapless soldier 's sigh Runs in blood down palace-walls .  Mrs. John Knightley was delighted to be of use ; any thing of ill health was a recommendation to her -- and though not so fond of a dentist as of a Mr. Wingfield , she was quite eager to have Harriet under her care. -- When it was thus settled on her sister 's side , Emma proposed it to her friend , and found her very persuadable. -- Harriet was to go ; she was invited for at least a fortnight ; she was to be conveyed in Mr. Woodhouse 's carriage. -- It was all arranged , it was all completed , and Harriet was safe in Brunswick Square .  He felt that he had the greatest news to tell since Peter Rabbit had first found the tracks of Buster Bear in the Green Forest .  He saw her too ; yet he looked grave , and seemed irresolute , and only by very slow degrees came at last near enough to speak to her .  I am tired of doing nothing .  It is such enjoyment to them , that if their uncle did not lay down the rule of their taking turns , whichever began would never give way to the other . ''  It would be difficult to say which had seen highest perfection in the other , or which had been the happiest : she , in receiving his declarations and proposals , or he in having them accepted .  said Miss Bates , joyfully ; `` my mother is so pleased ! -- she says she can not bear to have the poor old Vicarage without a mistress .  And the cow could n't catch him .  You are not just to Harriet 's claims .  `` I hope not , '' he replied , trying to look cheerful ; and with a forced smile presently added , `` It is I who may rather expect to be ill -- for I am now suffering under a very heavy disappointment ! ''  Mrs. Dashwood , whose eyes , as she answered the servant 's inquiry , had intuitively taken the same direction , was shocked to perceive by Elinor 's countenance how much she really suffered , and a moment afterwards , alike distressed by Marianne 's situation , knew not on which child to bestow her principal attention .  `` Do you compare your conduct with his ? ''  she said .  Emma denied none of it aloud , and agreed to none of it in private .  Elsa stretched out her pretty pink fingers .  I shall do THAT directly .  Mr. Knightley himself would be doing nothing to assist the cure ; -- not like Mr. Elton .  `` Yes , they are about one hundred and ninety miles from London .  All the little bright Stars were there with their nice little lamps .  `` You mistake me , you quite mistake me , '' she replied , exerting herself .  It was just possible that she might have been persuaded by Lady Russell !  I am amazed that you should think of such a thing . ''  Her father took a handful of peas , and , stooping , walked slowly along the line , letting the seed trickle through his fingers .  The Miss Musgrove , that all this has been happening to .  `` I am not at all surprized at you , Harriet .  `` Mr. Weston will be almost as much relieved as myself , '' said she .  As she said this , she looked directly at her companion .  Perhaps it is about Miss Williams and , by the bye , I dare say it is , because he looked so conscious when I mentioned her .  `Oh ! '  The Eltons were still talking of a visit from the Sucklings , and of the use to be made of their barouche-landau ; and Jane Fairfax was still at her grandmother 's ; and as the return of the Campbells from Ireland was again delayed , and August , instead of Midsummer , fixed for it , she was likely to remain there full two months longer , provided at least she were able to defeat Mrs. Elton 's activity in her service , and save herself from being hurried into a delightful situation against her will .  His mother and sisters were very fond of him .  Their two confidential friends , Mr Shepherd , who lived in the neighbouring market town , and Lady Russell , were called to advise them ; and both father and daughter seemed to expect that something should be struck out by one or the other to remove their embarrassments and reduce their expenditure , without involving the loss of any indulgence of taste or pride .  The motive was too common to be wondered at ; but the means , however they might succeed by establishing his superiority in ill-breeding , were not likely to attach any one to him except his wife .  Their dress was very smart , their manners very civil , they were delighted with the house , and in raptures with the furniture , and they happened to be so doatingly fond of children that Lady Middleton 's good opinion was engaged in their favour before they had been an hour at the Park .  When the maid saw her mistress working , she began to work , too ; and when she saw how beautifully everything was done , she was ashamed to do anything badly herself .  `` She always declares she will never marry , which , of course , means just nothing at all .  She had some feelings which she was ashamed to investigate .  `` Oh , ho ! -- I understand you .  `` Oh -- he did not say much ; but he looked as if he knew it to be true , so from that moment I set it down as certain .  The man and one of the maids were sent off immediately into Devonshire , to prepare the house for their mistress 's arrival ; for as Lady Middleton was entirely unknown to Mrs. Dashwood , she preferred going directly to the cottage to being a visitor at Barton Park ; and she relied so undoubtingly on Sir John 's description of the house , as to feel no curiosity to examine it herself till she entered it as her own .  The Dashwoods were two days on the road , and Marianne bore her journey on both , without essential fatigue .  She could not have called it either cold or friendly , or anything so certainly as embarrassed .  said Mr. Woodhouse , shaking his head and fixing his eyes on her with tender concern. -- The ejaculation in Emma 's ear expressed , `` Ah !  The peace turned him on shore at the very moment , and he has been living with us , in our little family circle , ever since . ''  But Margaret was .  The work of one moment was destroyed by the next .  cried Marianne .  `` But it is not to be imagined that she lives up to her income .  Miss Fairfax knows it is not from the Campbells , or they would have been guessed at first .  `` Your Majesty knows , '' said the Mouse-deer , `` that I am Chief Dancer of the War-dance .  What totally different feelings did Emma take back into the house from what she had brought out ! -- she had then been only daring to hope for a little respite of suffering ; -- she was now in an exquisite flutter of happiness , and such happiness moreover as she believed must still be greater when the flutter should have passed away .  Now , though at first she will suffer much , I am sure she will soon become easier .  She has not the least idea . ''  I know he would be hurt by my failing in such a mark of respect to him on the present occasion .  His good looks and his rank had one fair claim on his attachment ; since to them he must have owed a wife of very superior character to any thing deserved by his own .  The fever was over , and Emma could harbour little fear of the pulse being quickened again by injurious courtesy .  Mr. Weston was musing .  The third night , when the mother Lark came home , the baby Larks said , `` Mother , dear , the farmer came to the field to-day , and when he looked at the corn he was quite angry ; he said , 'This will never do !  what a taking poor Mr. Edward will be in when he hears of it !  `` Do you dare to suppose me so great a blockhead , as not to know what a man is talking of ? -- What do you deserve ? ''  But she was so sweet and merry that everybody loved her .  The Tiger sprang upon the Brahmin , to eat him up ; and this time the Brahmin had very hard work to persuade him to wait .  Well , at last , as I need not tell you , you were forced on me ; and what a sweet figure I cut ! -- what an evening of agony it was ! -- Marianne , beautiful as an angel on one side , calling me Willoughby in such a tone ! -- Oh , God ! -- holding out her hand to me , asking me for an explanation , with those bewitching eyes fixed in such speaking solicitude on my face ! -- and Sophia , jealous as the devil on the other hand , looking all that was -- Well , it does not signify ; it is over now. -- Such an evening ! -- I ran away from you all as soon as I could ; but not before I had seen Marianne 's sweet face as white as death. -- THAT was the last , last look I ever had of her ; -- the last manner in which she appeared to me .  I can only say that there was smoothness outwardly .  But ( lowering her voice ) -- nobody speaks except ourselves , and it is rather too much to be talking nonsense for the entertainment of seven silent people . ''  Well , Mr. Knightley , and so you actually saw the letter ; well -- ''  He fancied bathing might be good for it -- the warm bath -- but she says it did him no lasting benefit .  Emma was pleased with the thought ; and producing the box , the table was quickly scattered over with alphabets , which no one seemed so much disposed to employ as their two selves .  He was delighted with every thing ; admired Hartfield sufficiently for Mr. Woodhouse 's ear ; and when their going farther was resolved on , confessed his wish to be made acquainted with the whole village , and found matter of commendation and interest much oftener than Emma could have supposed .  But when his temper is aroused and gets away from him , then watch out !  It was hot ; and after walking some time over the gardens in a scattered , dispersed way , scarcely any three together , they insensibly followed one another to the delicious shade of a broad short avenue of limes , which stretching beyond the garden at an equal distance from the river , seemed the finish of the pleasure grounds. -- It led to nothing ; nothing but a view at the end over a low stone wall with high pillars , which seemed intended , in their erection , to give the appearance of an approach to the house , which never had been there .  `` But it does not matter ; the new nightingale is just as good . ''  `` But where could _you_ hear it ? ''  How he wished he were in a soft , warm bed , with his aching bones comfortable in blankets !  `` Yet not a syllable has been said to you on the subject , by either of them . ''  `` I am sure you could , '' said the Rabbit , politely , `` only be sure to begin gently , and pull harder and harder till you get her . ''  He saw a funny sight : Little Jack Rollaround was lying in his trundle-bed , and he had put up one little fat leg for a mast , and fastened the corner of his wee shirt to it for a sail ; and he was blowing at it with all his might , and saying , `` Roll around !  is it really true ? ''  Pleased to find herself more comfortably situated in that particular than she had expected , Elinor was very willing to compound for the want of much real enjoyment from any of their evening parties , which , whether at home or abroad , formed only for cards , could have little to amuse her .  It will do you good to speak of your distress , whatever it may be . ''  'T was Christmas-time , and her parents poor Could hardly drive the wolf from the door , Striving with poverty 's patient pain Only to live till summer again .  In the evening , when they were all three together , Marianne began voluntarily to speak of him again ; -- but that it was not without an effort , the restless , unquiet thoughtfulness in which she had been for some time previously sitting -- her rising colour , as she spoke , -- and her unsteady voice , plainly shewed .  Mrs Croft was attending with great good-humour , and whenever she spoke at all , it was very sensibly .  `` My brother , '' whispered one of the girls ; `` mamma is thinking of poor Richard . ''  `` Another time , Sir , I thank you , not now . ''  The smile was returned as Jane answered ,  `` It was a foolish , idle inclination on my side , '' said he , `` the consequence of ignorance of the world -- and want of employment .  `` Very true , my love , very true .  The post-office has a great charm at one period of our lives .  The change was indubitable .  And when he was gone , she almost quarrelled with me -- No , I should not say quarrelled , for we never had a quarrel in our lives ; but she was quite distressed that I had owned the apples were so nearly gone ; she wished I had made him believe we had a great many left .  His manner had no air of study or exaggeration .  Lucy was naturally clever ; her remarks were often just and amusing ; and as a companion for half an hour Elinor frequently found her agreeable ; but her powers had received no aid from education : she was ignorant and illiterate ; and her deficiency of all mental improvement , her want of information in the most common particulars , could not be concealed from Miss Dashwood , in spite of her constant endeavour to appear to advantage .  Oh , for shame ! -- To be sure you must know better than that .  There is an anxiety , a curiosity in what one feels for Emma .  ( in a tone of wonder and pity , ) I had no idea that the law had been so great a slavery .  `` Yes , '' he replied , with some embarrassment , `` almost ever since ; I have been once or twice at Delaford for a few days , but it has never been in my power to return to Barton . ''  Of what he had then written , nothing was to be retracted or qualified .  The servant , who saw only that Miss Marianne was taken ill , had sense enough to call one of the maids , who , with Mrs. Dashwood 's assistance , supported her into the other room .  It is not likely that I _should_ , considering what I have been used to .  If he should have a numerous family , for instance , it would be a very convenient addition . ''  Be infinitely cleverer and not half so conceited .  Marianne , I dare say , will not leave her room again this evening .  The idea of wanting gratitude and consideration for Miss Woodhouse , whom she really loved extremely , made her wretched for a while , and when the violence of grief was comforted away , still remained powerful enough to prompt to what was right and support her in it very tolerably .  He must have a pretty good opinion of himself . ''  he shouted .  The lady would probably have passed without suspicion , had he not convinced Miss Dashwood that what concerned her ought not to escape his lips .  How is Mr .  In spite of the mischief of his attentions , she owed him gratitude and regard , perhaps compassion .  Personal size and mental sorrow have certainly no necessary proportions .  It is a great change ; and though she is amazingly fortunate -- such a situation , I suppose , as no young woman before ever met with on first going out -- do not think us ungrateful , Miss Woodhouse , for such surprising good fortune -- ( again dispersing her tears ) -- but , poor dear soul !  Emma had hardly expected them : for Mr. Weston , who had called in for half a minute , in order to hear that his son was very handsome , knew nothing of their plans ; and it was an agreeable surprize to her , therefore , to perceive them walking up to the house together , arm in arm .  How can Emma imagine she has any thing to learn herself , while Harriet is presenting such a delightful inferiority ?  The good sense of Colonel and Mrs. Campbell could not oppose such a resolution , though their feelings did .  Whenever I see her , she always curtseys and asks me how I do , in a very pretty manner ; and when you have had her here to do needlework , I observe she always turns the lock of the door the right way and never bangs it .  -- I remember that perfectly . ''  Edward was not entirely without hopes of some favourable change in his mother towards him ; and on THAT he rested for the residue of their income .  `` I am heartily glad of it , '' he cried .  She had a great deal to listen to ; all the particulars of past sad scenes , all the minutiae of distress upon distress , which in former conversations had been merely hinted at , were dwelt on now with a natural indulgence .  Patty makes an excellent apple-dumpling .  The carriage was at the door ready to take my poor cousins away , and they were just stepping in as he came off ; poor Lucy in such a condition , he says , she could hardly walk ; and Nancy , she was almost as bad .  no , indeed !  `` I 've saved a fat trout for you to make up for the one I ate yesterday .  By and by the little Jackal came dancing home , happy and free from care , -- _but_ looking all around .  Elinor made what excuse she could for her .  They are but too apt to give up music . ''  But Gottlieb answered him humbly , `` Nay , sir , the Christ Child sent them , for He put the thought in your heart . ''  `` Your feelings are singular .  snapped Little Joe .  But hardly had she so spoken , when she found her brother was civilly offering a seat in his carriage , if the weather were Mr. Elton 's only objection , and Mr. Elton actually accepting the offer with much prompt satisfaction .  `` Well , '' said the mother , `` that is another story ; when a man begins to do his own business , instead of asking somebody else to do it , things get done .  One other beautiful story they used to play .  `` He comes from Mr. Pratt 's purposely to see us .  And the Middletons too , you must introduce me to THEM .  Bates ? ''  But this little pool , instead of being beautiful and clear so that Buster could see right to the bottom of it and so tell if there were any fish there , was so muddy that he could n't see into it at all .  He stopped .  `` Yes , '' said Emma , `` I hope I do . ''  `` I do not know ; but I can hardly suppose that , at Admiral Croft 's time of life , and in his profession , he should not have many acquaintance in such a place as this . ''  One of them was Blacky the Crow .  The following morning Anne was out with her friend , and for the first hour , in an incessant and fearful sort of watch for him in vain ; but at last , in returning down Pulteney Street , she distinguished him on the right hand pavement at such a distance as to have him in view the greater part of the street .  you answer as discreetly as she could do herself .  `` Well , well , means to make her an offer then .  `` Only think !  And when I think of Benwick , my tongue is tied . ''  `` This is coming as you should do , '' said she ; `` like a gentleman. -- I am quite glad to see you . ''  High up on the church steeple , the Weather-vane answered , `` It is no time for people to be in the streets ; decent folk are in their beds . ''  Mrs. Dashwood looked with pleasure at Marianne , whose fine eyes were fixed so expressively on Willoughby , as plainly denoted how well she understood him .  `` My poor dear Isabella , '' said he , fondly taking her hand , and interrupting , for a few moments , her busy labours for some one of her five children -- '' How long it is , how terribly long since you were here !  How to settle the claims of Enscombe and Hartfield had been a continual impediment -- less acknowledged by Mr. Weston than by herself -- but even he had never been able to finish the subject better than by saying -- '' Those matters will take care of themselves ; the young people will find a way . ''  She considered it as an act of indispensable duty to clear away the claims of creditors with all the expedition which the most comprehensive retrenchments could secure , and saw no dignity in anything short of it .  You would not think it perhaps , but Marianne WAS remarkably handsome a few months ago ; quite as handsome as Elinor. -- Now you see it is all gone . ''  I have heard him speak , and so must you , so very highly of Jane Fairfax !  Buster Bear tiptoed up very softly until he was right behind Little Joe Otter .  The invitation was accepted ; but when the hour of appointment drew near , necessary as it was in common civility to Mrs. Jennings , that they should both attend her on such a visit , Elinor had some difficulty in persuading her sister to go , for still she had seen nothing of Willoughby ; and therefore was not more indisposed for amusement abroad , than unwilling to run the risk of his calling again in her absence .  Very odd indeed ! ''  `` We think NOW , '' -- said Mr. Dashwood , after a short pause , `` of ROBERT 'S marrying Miss Morton . ''  `` You know him then , '' said Mrs. Dashwood .  She was received with a cordial respect which could not but please , and given all the consequence she could wish for .  She hoped they might now become friends again .  `` I hope he has had no bad news , '' said Lady Middleton .  Poor Miss Bates may very likely have committed her niece and hurried her into a greater appearance of intimacy than her own good sense would have dictated , in spite of the very natural wish of a little change . ''  There was a kind of cold hearted selfishness on both sides , which mutually attracted them ; and they sympathised with each other in an insipid propriety of demeanor , and a general want of understanding .  When the people had all gone to rest , the two giants came , and they were throwing down all that was before them , but as soon as they began , the tailor commenced manoeuvring until he was able to throw down the great stone , so that it fell upon the skull of the giant that was under him , and it killed him .  `` There now , '' said Miss Steele , affectedly simpering , `` everybody laughs at me so about the Doctor , and I can not think why .  `` Mr. Elton going to be married ! ''  `` There now ; you see how droll he is .  And , in short , from knowing his usual ways , I am very much inclined to think that it was for their accommodation the carriage was used at all .  There are secrets in all families , you know ) -- The case is , that a party of friends are invited to pay a visit at Enscombe in January ; and that Frank 's coming depends upon their being put off .  He will be a completely gross , vulgar farmer , totally inattentive to appearances , and thinking of nothing but profit and loss . ''  It was the story of _Pilgrim 's Progress_ ; if you have never heard it , you must be sure to read it as soon as you can read well enough to understand the old-fashioned words .  His present attentions to your family are very sincere : quite from the heart .  `` Surely , flowers , '' said her mother , `` and shall we not have a little salad garden in the middle ? ''  Excepting one short period of her life , she had never , since the age of fourteen , never since the loss of her dear mother , known the happiness of being listened to , or encouraged by any just appreciation or real taste .  I could not think about you so much without doating on you , faults and all ; and by dint of fancying so many errors , have been in love with you ever since you were thirteen at least . ''  `` As a friend ! ''  --  Oh !  He had returned to a late dinner , after some days ' absence , and now walked up to Hartfield to say that all were well in Brunswick Square .  'My dear fellow , ' I should have said , 'consider what you are doing .  He had come , in his anxiety to see how she bore Frank Churchill 's engagement , with no selfish view , no view at all , but of endeavouring , if she allowed him an opening , to soothe or to counsel her. -- The rest had been the work of the moment , the immediate effect of what he heard , on his feelings .  He thought , `` Pshaw !  He could not swim across , and he wanted to keep running away from the cow and the horse and the people .  Brigden stares to see anybody with me but my wife .  `` Her daughters are both exceedingly well married , and therefore I can not perceive the necessity of her remembering them farther .  `` And when is Miss Fairfax to leave you ? ''  On the contents of that letter depended all which this world could do for her .  said the king .  You know how much he wanted money : worse than myself .  The Elector came on the appointed day , and with him came his favourite courtiers from the castle .  I mean while the woman you love lives , and lives for you .  He was particularly grave the whole morning .  They could not listen to her description of him .  'It would have been beyond comparison , ' she said , 'the least evil of the two , and she would be glad to compound NOW for nothing worse . '  Reported fit for home service for a year or two , and so I was sent off to the West Indies . ''  He tried to smile as he replied , `` your sister 's engagement to Mr. Willoughby is very generally known . ''  `` There is no persuading you to change your mind , Brandon , I know of old , '' said Sir John , `` when once you are determined on anything .  The gentleman offered his services ; and perceiving that her modesty declined what her situation rendered necessary , took her up in his arms without farther delay , and carried her down the hill .  She might have been absolutely rich and perfectly healthy , and yet be happy .  He professed himself extremely anxious about her fair friend -- her fair , lovely , amiable friend .  The more exciting it is , the better he likes it .  I was there -- one of the party . ''  Miss Woodhouse must excuse me .  I guess that 'll teach him to let our fish alone . ''  I was really in pain for him ; for your hard-hearted sister , Miss Anne , seems bent on cruelty . ''  Let me be able to fancy that a better knowledge of my heart , and of my present feelings , will draw from her a more spontaneous , more natural , more gentle , less dignified , forgiveness .  My dear Harriet , what do you mean ?  The tailor threw down the stone , and it fell on him and killed him .  And Mr. Weston at the same time , walking briskly with long steps through the passage , was calling out ,  There can be no doubt of its being written for you and to you . ''  By birth she belonged to Highbury : and when at three years old , on losing her mother , she became the property , the charge , the consolation , the fondling of her grandmother and aunt , there had seemed every probability of her being permanently fixed there ; of her being taught only what very limited means could command , and growing up with no advantages of connexion or improvement , to be engrafted on what nature had given her in a pleasing person , good understanding , and warm-hearted , well-meaning relations .  Your musical knowledge alone would entitle you to name your own terms , have as many rooms as you like , and mix in the family as much as you chose ; -- that is -- I do not know -- if you knew the harp , you might do all that , I am very sure ; but you sing as well as play ; -- yes , I really believe you might , even without the harp , stipulate for what you chose ; -- and you must and shall be delightfully , honourably and comfortably settled before the Campbells or I have any rest . ''  Their evil was incalculable .  He seized it and was just going to devour it , when the old woman to whom he had given his crust snatched it away and took him in her arms .  Can it be woman ?  what do you mean ? -- Mistake you ! -- Am I to suppose then ? -- ''  I have nothing that would be good enough to offer to the Christ Child . ''  `` Good God ! ''  `` You , who have been the best friend I ever had in my life -- Want gratitude to you ! -- Nobody is equal to you ! -- I care for nobody as I do for you ! -- Oh !  `` Ah ! -- ( shaking his head ) -- the uncertainty of when I may be able to return ! -- I shall try for it with a zeal ! -- It will be the object of all my thoughts and cares ! -- and if my uncle and aunt go to town this spring -- but I am afraid -- they did not stir last spring -- I am afraid it is a custom gone for ever . ''  You must stay to be acquainted with Mrs Wallis , the beautiful Mrs Wallis .  Her father was growing nervous , and could not understand _her_ .  `` Yes .  Is not this room rich in specimens of your landscapes and flowers ; and has not Mrs. Weston some inimitable figure-pieces in her drawing-room , at Randalls ? ''  `` You are very good. -- The future must be my proof .  What happiness it must be to her good old grandmother and excellent aunt , when she comes to visit them !  We are not all born to be handsome .  She turned towards Lucy in silent amazement , unable to divine the reason or object of such a declaration ; and though her complexion varied , she stood firm in incredulity , and felt in no danger of an hysterical fit , or a swoon .  I have not forgotten it , I assure you. -- Deceived myself , I did very miserably deceive you -- and it will be a painful reflection to me for ever .  This had been a proof of life , however , of service to her sister ; and Henrietta , though perfectly incapable of being in the same room with Louisa , was kept , by the agitation of hope and fear , from a return of her own insensibility .  The rain was a mere trifle , and Anne was most sincere in preferring a walk with Mr Elliot .  `` Do you know Miss Bates 's niece ?  You may depend upon it , that they will move in the first set in Bath this winter , and as rank is rank , your being known to be related to them will have its use in fixing your family ( our family let me say ) in that degree of consideration which we must all wish for . ''  Edward Ferrars was not recommended to their good opinion by any peculiar graces of person or address .  do the children grow ?  You are trying not to smile . ''  `` It was not in her nature .  He staid an hour with them .  They have not seen two such drawing rooms before .  If Buster had n't been so frightened himself , he might have recognized that second yell as one of fright , for that is what it was .  But you will do every thing right .  Better than nearer !  And when the hermit went home to his mountain , the clown went with him .  In all other respects , her visit began and proceeded very well .  Nothing can be like it , to be sure !  What will it answer ?  `` Ah !  and I am sure our thanks are due to you , Mrs. Weston , on that score .  It would have grieved me to lose your acquaintance , which must have been the consequence of your marrying Mr. Martin .  And now I come to the principal , the only important part of my conduct while belonging to you , which excites my own anxiety , or requires very solicitous explanation .  says the lion , `` but that 's the very way he had , when he was making the plough that I was caught in .  The party at the Great House was sometimes increased by other company .  `` Well , Mrs. Weston , '' said Emma triumphantly when he left them , `` what do you say now to Mr. Knightley 's marrying Jane Fairfax ? ''  I fancy they are all at Uppercross . ''  Mr. Elton , my astonishment is much beyond any thing I can express .  `` My cow is stuck in the mud , about a quarter of a mile from here , '' said little Brother Rabbit , `` and I can not pull her out .  He endured too well , stood too well with every body .  It is not likely you should ever have observed him ; but he knows you very well indeed -- I mean by sight . ''  They should lose her ; and , probably , in great measure , her husband also. -- Frank Churchill would return among them no more ; and Miss Fairfax , it was reasonable to suppose , would soon cease to belong to Highbury .  And the horse could n't catch him .  _She_ was a little occupied in weighing her own feelings , and trying to understand the degree of her agitation , which she rather thought was considerable .  He wished to persuade Mr. Woodhouse , as well as Emma , to join the party ; and he knew that to have any of them sitting down out of doors to eat would inevitably make him ill. Mr. Woodhouse must not , under the specious pretence of a morning drive , and an hour or two spent at Donwell , be tempted away to his misery .  `` Selfish father of men !  I can make him the richest , the most beautiful , or the most powerful prince in the world ; choose . ''  Anne half smiled and said , `` Do you see that in my eye ? ''  So wondered , so talked Mrs. Jennings .  `Can I do any thing for you at Kingston ? '  When the people of New Orleans knew that Margaret was dead , they said , `` She was a mother to the motherless ; she was a friend to those who had no friends ; she had wisdom greater than schools can teach ; we will not let her memory go from us . ''  being all that she had time for , as she passed away .  Marianne told her , with the greatest delight , that Willoughby had given her a horse , one that he had bred himself on his estate in Somersetshire , and which was exactly calculated to carry a woman .  Let us forgive each other at once .  It would be a compact of convenience , and the world would be satisfied .  `` How much your friends in Ireland must be enjoying your pleasure on this occasion , Miss Fairfax .  Lives not alone nor or itself : fear not and I will call , The weak worm from its lowly bed , and thou shalt hear its voice .  And despite all this , she earned enough so that when the war was over she built a big steam factory for her bread .  He makes a monstrous deal of money , and they keep their own coach .  `` Not quite so miserable as to be insensible to mirth .  Believe it to be most fervent , most undeviating , in F. W .  His father only called him a coxcomb , and thought it a very good story ; but that Mrs. Weston did not like it , was clear enough , by her passing it over as quickly as possible , and making no other comment than that `` all young people would have their little whims . ''  Yes , I am sure : carry her gently to the inn . ''  CHAPTER 26  The letter , with a direction hardly legible , to `` Miss A. E. -- , '' was evidently the one which he had been folding so hastily .  So the City Mouse took his little friend down the cellar stairs and into a big cupboard where there were many shelves .  `` Mr. Elton , this is the most extraordinary conduct !  After some time spent in saying little or doing less , Lady Middleton sat down to Cassino , and as Marianne was not in spirits for moving about , she and Elinor luckily succeeding to chairs , placed themselves at no great distance from the table .  `` I am very glad , indeed , my dear , to hear she is to be so comfortably settled .  Chapter 3  The morning was chiefly spent in leaving cards at the houses of Mrs. Jennings 's acquaintance to inform them of her being in town ; and Marianne was all the time busy in observing the direction of the wind , watching the variations of the sky and imagining an alteration in the air .  He was too diffident to do justice to himself ; but when his natural shyness was overcome , his behaviour gave every indication of an open , affectionate heart .  His age is only so much beyond hers as to be an advantage , as to make his character and principles fixed ; -- and his disposition , I am well convinced , is exactly the very one to make your sister happy .  They went round on one side of it , and the Lion stalked up to the other .  I might have sold it again , the next day , for more than I gave : but , with regard to the purchase-money , I might have been very unfortunate indeed ; for the stocks were at that time so low , that if I had not happened to have the necessary sum in my banker 's hands , I must have sold out to very great loss . ''  It was pretty to watch ; it made Margery think of a photograph her teacher had , a photograph of a famous picture called `` The Sower . ''  But as it was , such a notion had scarcely ever entered her head , except by Mrs. Jennings 's suggestion ; and she could not help believing herself the nicest observer of the two ; -- she watched his eyes , while Mrs. Jennings thought only of his behaviour ; -- and while his looks of anxious solicitude on Marianne 's feeling , in her head and throat , the beginning of a heavy cold , because unexpressed by words , entirely escaped the latter lady 's observation ; -- SHE could discover in them the quick feelings , and needless alarm of a lover .  `` Almost this moment . ''  Mr Shepherd hastened to assure him , that Admiral Croft was a very hale , hearty , well-looking man , a little weather-beaten , to be sure , but not much , and quite the gentleman in all his notions and behaviour ; not likely to make the smallest difficulty about terms , only wanted a comfortable home , and to get into it as soon as possible ; knew he must pay for his convenience ; knew what rent a ready-furnished house of that consequence might fetch ; should not have been surprised if Sir Walter had asked more ; had inquired about the manor ; would be glad of the deputation , certainly , but made no great point of it ; said he sometimes took out a gun , but never killed ; quite the gentleman .  `` He has no business catching _our_ fish ! ''  It puts him quite out of heart . ''  I hold them as high as I can for the little boy , who comes dancing out .  But I shall want the ribbon directly -- so it had better go to Hartfield -- at least the ribbon .  He tried to bite it .  `` I hope I am aware that they may be too noisy for your father -- or even may be some encumbrance to you , if your visiting engagements continue to increase as much as they have done lately . ''  `` We spent such a day , Edward , in Harley Street yesterday !  It was a wonderful and beautiful castle , all glistening towers that gleamed like marble , and glancing windows that shone like crystal .  If she has it now , you have given it .  Sir , you are most kind .  He would eat those berries to the last one , and then he would go home to the Green Forest .  It was a commission to me !  I do not think she has been in this house three times this summer . ''  Her indignation would have been still stronger than it was , had she not witnessed that embarrassment which seemed to speak a consciousness of his own misconduct , and prevented her from believing him so unprincipled as to have been sporting with the affections of her sister from the first , without any design that would bear investigation .  She promised , however , to think of it ; and pretty nearly promised , moreover , to think of it , with the intention of finding it a very good scheme .  came crying to me the day after , in a great fright for fear of Mrs. Ferrars , as well as not knowing how to get to Plymouth ; for Lucy it seems borrowed all her money before she went off to be married , on purpose we suppose to make a show with , and poor Nancy had not seven shillings in the world ; -- so I was very glad to give her five guineas to take her down to Exeter , where she thinks of staying three or four weeks with Mrs. Burgess , in hopes , as I tell her , to fall in with the Doctor again .  He seemed by this connexion between the families , quite to belong to her .  The Palmers were to remove to Cleveland about the end of March , for the Easter holidays ; and Mrs. Jennings , with both her friends , received a very warm invitation from Charlotte to go with them .  Then he came straight over to where the fish lay , his nose wrinkling , and his eyes twinkling with pleasure .  `` You , Emma , who have so few opportunities of dancing , you are really out of luck ; you are very much out of luck ! ''  `` You ca n't catch me , I 'm the Gingerbread Man ! ''  If any thing could increase her delight , it was perceiving that the baby would soon have outgrown its first set of caps .  Nobody but yourself could imagine such a thing possible .  said Emma , laughing .  Without knowing when the carriage turned into Vicarage Lane , or when it stopped , they found themselves , all at once , at the door of his house ; and he was out before another syllable passed. -- Emma then felt it indispensable to wish him a good night .  With all the state which a butler and foot-boy could give , Mr Elliot was ushered into the room .  Pity for him was all over .  Quite thick shoes .  She asked no more questions therefore , merely employed her own fancy , and that soon pointed out to her the probability of its being some money concern -- something just come to light , of a disagreeable nature in the circumstances of the family , -- something which the late event at Richmond had brought forward .  It is only by seeing women in their own homes , among their own set , just as they always are , that you can form any just judgment .  In the mean while she was in the carriage .  What is the foolish girl about ? ''  It gave her no surprise that she saw nothing of Mrs. Palmer ; and as it gave her likewise no concern , she never mentioned her name .  `` Upon my word , '' replied Elinor , `` I can not tell you , for I do not perfectly comprehend the meaning of the word .  They were hopping from the barren places into the young , green crops , and as they settled down they ate the tiny shoots and leaves to the ground .  That Louisa must remain where she was , however distressing to her friends to be involving the Harvilles in such trouble , did not admit a doubt .  `` My dear Miss Woodhouse , '' said the latter , `` I am just run across to entreat the favour of you to come and sit down with us a little while , and give us your opinion of our new instrument ; you and Miss Smith .  We do not like our lodgings here the worse , I can tell you , for putting us in mind of those we first had at North Yarmouth .  If they must dance , they had better dance at Randalls .  The acquaintance at present had no charm for her .  She wondered , with little intermission what could be the reason of it ; was sure there must be some bad news , and thought over every kind of distress that could have befallen him , with a fixed determination that he should not escape them all .  At last nearly all the people were kneeling on the desolate fields praying for deliverance from the plague of crickets .  So the pioneers settled there and built themselves huts and cabins for the first winter .  He very handsomely hopes they will be happy together ; and there is nothing very unforgiving in that , I think . ''  Every thing he said , was clever .  Let me hear from you without delay ; I am impatient for a thousand particulars .  Mr. Weston , with triumph of a different sort , was confessing that he had known it to be snowing some time , but had not said a word , lest it should make Mr. Woodhouse uncomfortable , and be an excuse for his hurrying away .  `` I wish you may not get into a scrape , Harriet , whenever he does marry ; -- I mean , as to being acquainted with his wife -- for though his sisters , from a superior education , are not to be altogether objected to , it does not follow that he might marry any body at all fit for you to notice .  Emma saw symptoms of it immediately in the expression of her face ; and while paying her own compliments to Mrs. Bates , and appearing to attend to the good old lady 's replies , she saw her with a sort of anxious parade of mystery fold up a letter which she had apparently been reading aloud to Miss Fairfax , and return it into the purple and gold reticule by her side , saying , with significant nods ,  `` Wentworth was the very name !  Not a soul suspected anything of the matter , not even Nancy , who , poor soul !  `` No , I fancy not , '' replied Mrs. Elton , with a most satisfied smile . ''  It was a sad event -- a great shock -- with all her faults , what would Mr. Churchill do without her ?  Men are a thankless lot .  They proceed from no misconduct , and can bring no disgrace .  An intimate acquaintance of Mrs. Jennings joined them soon after they entered the Gardens , and Elinor was not sorry that by her continuing with them , and engaging all Mrs. Jennings 's conversation , she was herself left to quiet reflection .  said the clown .  `` You speak as if you envied him . ''  It was on the wedding-day of this beloved friend that Emma first sat in mournful thought of any continuance .  `` Oh ! ''  While either of them protected him and his , Hartfield was safe. -- But Mr. John Knightley must be in London again by the end of the first week in November .  `` I can explain this too , '' cried Mrs Smith , smiling .  We have had great trials , and great persecutions , but however , at the same time , gratefully acknowledge many friends , yourself not the least among them , whose great kindness I shall always thankfully remember , as will Edward too , who I have told of it .  A man always imagines a woman to be ready for any body who asks her . ''  `` No , '' -- he calmly replied , -- '' there is but one married woman in the world whom I can ever allow to invite what guests she pleases to Donwell , and that one is -- ''  `` Mr. Knightley I declare ! -- I must speak to him if possible , just to thank him .  You can not think how happy I shall be !  I want a change .  he shouted , `` I am coming ! ''  He considered his disposition as of the sort which must suffer heavily , uniting very strong feelings with quiet , serious , and retiring manners , and a decided taste for reading , and sedentary pursuits .  He addressed her with easy civility , and twisted his head into a bow which assured her as plainly as words could have done , that he was exactly the coxcomb she had heard him described to be by Lucy .  do not imagine that I expect an account of Miss Fairfax 's sensations from you , or from any body else .  I think you play quite as well as she does .  But pray , Colonel , how came you to conjure out that I should be in town today ? ''  CHAPTER III  she cried , satisfied to have no one preferred to herself. -- '' You are a humourist , and may say what you like .  `` Oh , I do beg your pardon , '' said the little Jackal .  `` We were too magnificent , '' said he .  CHAPTER I  But I never heard it spoken of till two days ago . ''  So he stood still and began to talk out loud to himself .  She remembered too , her own surprise at the time , at his mentioning nothing farther of those friends , at his total silence with respect even to their names .  `` We hope she is . ''  Upon the whole , she was equally contented with her view of his feelings .  roared the Lion .  You must see the difference . ''  Cherry was glad of that , and he was running happily back to his kennel when he heard cries of distress , and suddenly he saw some rough men dragging along a young girl , who was weeping and crying for help .  As to the pretence of trying her native air , I look upon that as a mere excuse. -- In the summer it might have passed ; but what can any body 's native air do for them in the months of January , February , and March ?  It was not unlikely , she thought , that she might see Mr. Knightley in her way ; or , perhaps , he might come in while she were paying her visit .  I shall sit by you .  `` We had better put it off .  `` God has remembered ; your soul is in his sight even as mine , who have prayed and preached for forty years .  However , I have determined ; I think I am right ; I think you ought to be made acquainted with Mr Elliot 's real character .  If only he had chosen a tree near enough to other trees for him to jump across !  `` I was engaged elsewhere . ''  Oh , how he wished he were the monster once more , so that he could kill the men and rescue her !  `` Indeed you injure me if you suppose me unconvinced .  That was a point which Anne had not been able to avoid suspecting before ; and instead of drawing the same conclusion as Mary , from the present course of events , they served only to confirm the idea of his having felt some dawning of tenderness toward herself .  CHAPTER XI  When Elsa heard that , she used to laugh , but she never , never told .  `` And so YOU are forced to do it .  She was obliged , in spite of her previous determination to the contrary , to do it all the justice that Mrs. Weston foretold .  They have to be taught the difference between a birch tree and a weed . ''  Surprised and alarmed they proceeded directly into the room she had just quitted , where they found only Willoughby , who was leaning against the mantel-piece with his back towards them .  It was the king 's daughter , come down to bathe in the river , with her maidens .  Mrs. Dashwood was acting on motives of policy as well as pleasure in the frequency of her visits at Delaford ; for her wish of bringing Marianne and Colonel Brandon together was hardly less earnest , though rather more liberal than what John had expressed .  As this silence continued , every day made it appear more strange and more incompatible with the disposition of both .  I thought them particularly pleasing , and I will answer for it , they would generally please . ''  Hope had already entered ; and feeling all its anxious flutter , she bent over her sister to watch -- she hardly knew for what .  Yes , that will be quite enough for pleasure .  Look , he sees us ; he kisses his hand to you ; he takes you for my wife .  We will walk to the farm at the edge of the down , and see how the children go on ; we will walk to Sir John 's new plantations at Barton Cross , and the Abbeyland ; and we will often go the old ruins of the Priory , and try to trace its foundations as far as we are told they once reached .  However , it is some small consolation to remember that 'Imitation is the sincerest flattery . '  Here was a fortune at once ; besides which , there would be the chance of what might be done in any future war ; and he was sure Captain Wentworth was as likely a man to distinguish himself as any officer in the navy .  `` I will carry her myself .  Sir John did not much understand this reproof ; but he laughed as heartily as if he did , and then replied ,  They actually flew into the very tree under which he was hiding , and how they did scream !  Never had she felt so agitated , mortified , grieved , at any circumstance in her life .  All day , from morning until evening , she ironed clothes in a laundry .  ( with a little sigh of sentiment ) .  Can delight , Chained in night , The virgins of youth and morning bear ?  Marianne looked at her steadily , and said , `` You know , Elinor , that this is a kind of talking which I can not bear .  He was not at all ashamed of the acquaintance , and did , in fact , think and talk a great deal more about the Admiral , than the Admiral ever thought or talked about him .  Has he a house at Allenham ? ''  `` Whom are you going to dance with ? ''  `` We never shall .  said Lucy Steele .  my love , I could not then talk of hope to him or to myself .  It was fun to watch , but perhaps it was a little hard to do .  They had been speaking of it as they walked about Highbury the day before , and Frank Churchill had most earnestly lamented her absence .  They saw him step into his carriage , and in a minute it was out of sight .  Therefore , Sir Walter , what I would take leave to suggest is , that if in consequence of any rumours getting abroad of your intention ; which must be contemplated as a possible thing , because we know how difficult it is to keep the actions and designs of one part of the world from the notice and curiosity of the other ; consequence has its tax ; I , John Shepherd , might conceal any family-matters that I chose , for nobody would think it worth their while to observe me ; but Sir Walter Elliot has eyes upon him which it may be very difficult to elude ; and therefore , thus much I venture upon , that it will not greatly surprise me if , with all our caution , some rumour of the truth should get abroad ; in the supposition of which , as I was going to observe , since applications will unquestionably follow , I should think any from our wealthy naval commanders particularly worth attending to ; and beg leave to add , that two hours will bring me over at any time , to save you the trouble of replying . ''  `` You mean to go to Delaford after them I suppose , '' said Elinor , with a faint smile .  You stand beside the little trench and walk backward , and as you walk you hoe the loose earth back over the seeds ; the same earth that was hoed up you pull back again .  In short , I have made a match between Mr. Knightley and Jane Fairfax .  I know what your drawings are .  I had been too deeply concerned in the mischief to be soon at peace .  I have seen you only as the admirer of my friend .  Mrs. Dashwood 's and Elinor 's appetites were equally lost , and Margaret might think herself very well off , that with so much uneasiness as both her sisters had lately experienced , so much reason as they had often had to be careless of their meals , she had never been obliged to go without her dinner before .  Oh !  The Frank Churchill so long talked of , so high in interest , was actually before her -- he was presented to her , and she did not think too much had been said in his praise ; he was a _very_ good looking young man ; height , air , address , all were unexceptionable , and his countenance had a great deal of the spirit and liveliness of his father 's ; he looked quick and sensible .  And _she_ appears so truly good -- there is something so motherly and kind-hearted about her , that it wins upon one directly .  `` To be sure I did ; very often .  Emma listened , and looked , and soon perceived that Frank Churchill 's state might be best defined by the expressive phrase of being out of humour .  She would have been too happy but for poor Harriet ; but every blessing of her own seemed to involve and advance the sufferings of her friend , who must now be even excluded from Hartfield .  Now ordinarily Buster is one of the most good-natured persons in the world .  It must be about berry time now , and I 'd forgotten all about it .  `` I wish you would read it with a kinder spirit towards him . ''  --  I am glad you find Mr Elliot so agreeable , and wish I could be acquainted with him too ; but I have my usual luck : I am always out of the way when any thing desirable is going on ; always the last of my family to be noticed .  Whoever suffered inconvenience , she must suffer none , but it occupied a little time to settle the point of civility between the other two .  You are in a melancholy humour , and fancy that any one unlike yourself must be happy .  And I am not only , not going to be married , at present , but have very little intention of ever marrying at all . ''  But Harriet was in a tremor , and could not touch it ; and Emma , never loth to be first , was obliged to examine it herself .  It might be safely viewed with all its appendages of prosperity and beauty , its rich pastures , spreading flocks , orchard in blossom , and light column of smoke ascending. -- She joined them at the wall , and found them more engaged in talking than in looking around .  --  `` Yes , '' said Mrs Smith more doubtingly , `` sometimes it may , though I fear its lessons are not often in the elevated style you describe .  `` I had the pleasure of hearing it at Mr. Palmer 's , where I have been dining . ''  I am amused by one part of John 's letter -- did you notice it ? -- where he says , that my information did not take him wholly by surprize , that he was rather in expectation of hearing something of the kind . ''  It seemed to Little Joe that he never would come .  'T is a sad business . ''  I congratulate you , my dear Harriet , with all my heart .  Then it was very still for a long time .  `` I do suspect that in the midst of your perplexities at that time , you had very great amusement in tricking us all. -- I am sure you had. -- I am sure it was a consolation to you . ''  Two such she did not want .  `` Well , there _is_ feeling here. -- He does seem to have suffered in finding her ill. -- Certainly , I can have no doubt of his being fond of her .  The impertinence of these kind of scrutinies , moreover , was generally concluded with a compliment , which though meant as its douceur , was considered by Marianne as the greatest impertinence of all ; for after undergoing an examination into the value and make of her gown , the colour of her shoes , and the arrangement of her hair , she was almost sure of being told that upon `` her word she looked vastly smart , and she dared to say she would make a great many conquests . ''  They made a wonderful big pumpkin out of the wheelbarrow , trimmed with yellow paper , and Cinderella rolled away in it , when the fairy godmother waved her wand .  said she , quickly , looking up in his face .  I compare it with what it ought to have been ; I compare it with yours . ''  she cried , `` this is a moment of great happiness ! -- This would almost make amends for every thing ? ''  After the usual period of suspense , the usual sounds of approach were heard , and `` Mr and Mrs Charles Musgrove '' were ushered into the room .  It would be well for the eldest sister if she were equally satisfied with her situation , for a change is not very probable there .  I know you love a play ; and there is room for us all .  Anne smiled and said ,  So I looked at it directly , and , 'Lord !  `` There appeared such a perfectly good understanding among them all -- '' he began rather quickly , but checking himself , added , `` however , it is impossible for me to say on what terms they really were -- how it might all be behind the scenes .  Well !  Emma hung about him affectionately , and smiled , and said it must be so ; and that he must not class her with Isabella and Mrs. Weston , whose marriages taking them from Hartfield , had , indeed , made a melancholy change : but she was not going from Hartfield ; she should be always there ; she was introducing no change in their numbers or their comforts but for the better ; and she was very sure that he would be a great deal the happier for having Mr. Knightley always at hand , when he were once got used to the idea. -- Did he not love Mr. Knightley very much ? -- He would not deny that he did , she was sure. -- Whom did he ever want to consult on business but Mr .  Emma wondered whether the same suspicion of what might be expected from their knowing each other , which had taken strong possession of her mind , had ever crossed his ; and whether his compliments were to be considered as marks of acquiescence , or proofs of defiance .  For two or three months longer I shall remain where I am , and as I am . ''  `` You know , '' said she , `` I can not think him at all a fit match for Henrietta ; and considering the alliances which the Musgroves have made , she has no right to throw herself away .  CHAPTER 32  Like the doves voice , like transient day , like music in the air : Ah !  He seemed to me very well off as he was .  Her mind was quite sick of Mr. Elton and the Martins .  Edward , she believed , was still in town , and fortunately she had heard his address from Miss Steele .  So the little Gingerbread Boy jumped on the fox 's tail , and the fox began to swim the river .  He was dining with the Randalls family , and Jane , at the Eltons ' ; and he had seen a look , more than a single look , at Miss Fairfax , which , from the admirer of Miss Woodhouse , seemed somewhat out of place .  They all met , and were introduced .  And so you are most comfortably settled in your little cottage and want for nothing !  But thirty-five has nothing to do with matrimony . ''  He proved to me that he could afford it ; and that being the case , I was convinced he could not do better .  Their claims to the notice of Mrs. John Dashwood , as the nieces of the gentleman who for many years had had the care of her brother , might not have done much , however , towards procuring them seats at her table ; but as Lady Middleton 's guests they must be welcome ; and Lucy , who had long wanted to be personally known to the family , to have a nearer view of their characters and her own difficulties , and to have an opportunity of endeavouring to please them , had seldom been happier in her life , than she was on receiving Mrs. John Dashwood 's card .  Highbury , the large and populous village , almost amounting to a town , to which Hartfield , in spite of its separate lawn , and shrubberies , and name , did really belong , afforded her no equals .  The house and the garden , with all the objects surrounding them , were now become familiar , and the ordinary pursuits which had given to Norland half its charms were engaged in again with far greater enjoyment than Norland had been able to afford , since the loss of their father .  she cried in evident embarrassment , `` it all meant nothing ; a mere joke among ourselves . ''  `` It is too much !  `` I see no probability in it , unless you have any better foundation than what you mention .  It was Holy Week , and the king and the emperor , with all their trains , went every day to the great services in the cathedral .  The Musgroves , like their houses , were in a state of alteration , perhaps of improvement .  Emma was out of hearing .  `` Oh , my precious , precious friend , if you will , you can save my life ! ''  Mrs. Jennings , though regretting that she had not been five minutes earlier , was satisfied with the compromise ; and Elinor , as she swallowed the chief of it , reflected , that though its effects on a colicky gout were , at present , of little importance to her , its healing powers , on a disappointed heart might be as reasonably tried on herself as on her sister .  said Margery .  Now what do you say ? ''  He is in Highbury every now and then , and he is sure to ride through every week in his way to Kingston .  `` He had better not be in a hurry .  Let his behaviour be the guide of your sensations .  It never had happened before .  Mr Elliot is a man without heart or conscience ; a designing , wary , cold-blooded being , who thinks only of himself ; whom for his own interest or ease , would be guilty of any cruelty , or any treachery , that could be perpetrated without risk of his general character .  I regard Louisa Musgrove as a very amiable , sweet-tempered girl , and not deficient in understanding , but Benwick is something more .  After a few minutes of entire silence between them , John Knightley began with --  Elizabeth 's last letter had communicated a piece of news of some interest .  CHAPTER 12  Every thing in her household arrangements was conducted on the most liberal plan , and excepting a few old city friends , whom , to Lady Middleton 's regret , she had never dropped , she visited no one to whom an introduction could at all discompose the feelings of her young companions .  She moved away and sat down .  If he really sought to reconcile himself like a dutiful branch , he must be forgiven for having dismembered himself from the paternal tree .  Just as the clock struck twelve the door opened softly , and two tiny elves came dancing into the room , hopped on to the bench , and began to put the pieces together .  It is impossible to refuse what you ask in such a way .  The dream must be borne with , and Mr. Knightley must take his seat with the rest round the large modern circular table which Emma had introduced at Hartfield , and which none but Emma could have had power to place there and persuade her father to use , instead of the small-sized Pembroke , on which two of his daily meals had , for forty years been crowded .  She was deep in the happiness of such misery , or the misery of such happiness , instantly .  CHAPTER 43  `` I will , '' said the Goose .  `` The Crofts have arrived in Bath ?  `` But at least , Mamma , you can not deny the absurdity of the accusation , though you may not think it intentionally ill-natured .  `` He appears rough to you , '' said Emma , `` because you are so very gentle yourself ; but if you could compare him with other papas , you would not think him rough .  But here is my father coming : you will not object to my reading the charade to him .  Were you , yourself , ever to marry , she is the very woman for you .  Weston. -- So it proved ; -- for when happily released from Mr. Elton , and seated by Mr. Weston , at dinner , he made use of the very first interval in the cares of hospitality , the very first leisure from the saddle of mutton , to say to her ,  She did not regret it .  He must be starved , you know ; -- that is certain ; absolutely starved . ''  it would be a capital match for either of his sisters . ''  It is very good advice , and it shall have a better fate than your advice has often found ; for it shall be attended to . ''  Much as she had suffered from her first conversation with Lucy on the subject , she soon felt an earnest wish of renewing it ; and this for more reasons than one .  said I , `it is Miss Woodhouse : I am sure you will like to see her . '  The children took things out of the basket and began to play with the Little Fir Tree , just as he had often begged the wind and the snow and the birds to do .  `` If it were admissible to contradict a lady , '' said the gallant Mr. Elton --  `` Thank you , little House , '' he said , `` it 's good to hear your pretty voice , dear little House , and I will be in with you in a minute ; only first I must gather some firewood for dinner . ''  `` Oh !  Read it in comfort to yourself .  `` I have not even made any inquiry ; I do not wish to make any yet . ''  `` The last time I saw her she had a red nose , but I hope that may not happen every day . ''  He said , from the first , it was a very good sort -- which was our great comfort ; but the measles are a dreadful complaint .  `` I see what a life I am to lead among you .  The rest of Mrs. Palmer 's sympathy was shewn in procuring all the particulars in her power of the approaching marriage , and communicating them to Elinor .  His wife gave him a look which invited him in ; and , while he was coming round , added , `` Now , dearest Emma , let me intreat you to say and look every thing that may set his heart at ease , and incline him to be satisfied with the match .  it gives one exactly the idea of such a height as Miss Smith 's .  I assure you I shall not .  I felt sure that you was angry with me ; and have been quarrelling with myself ever since , for having took such a liberty as to trouble you with my affairs .  When is she dejected or melancholy ?  `` Very well , '' replied Emma ; `` a most natural feeling ; and the longer it lasts , the better I shall be pleased .  I wish Jane Fairfax very well ; but she tires me to death . ''  Emma wished to go to work directly , and therefore produced the portfolio containing her various attempts at portraits , for not one of them had ever been finished , that they might decide together on the best size for Harriet .  I give you notice -- You will find me a formidable antagonist on that point .  `` Yes , I would .  It was as much , however , as was desired , and more than was expected , by Edward and Elinor ; and Mrs. Ferrars herself , by her shuffling excuses , seemed the only person surprised at her not giving more .  What might not eight years do ?  Their party was small , and the hours passed quietly away .  And just then I could not hear any more , for my cousin called from below to tell me Mrs. Richardson was come in her coach , and would take one of us to Kensington Gardens ; so I was forced to go into the room and interrupt them , to ask Lucy if she would like to go , but she did not care to leave Edward ; so I just run up stairs and put on a pair of silk stockings and came off with the Richardsons . ''  If _we_ exert ourselves , I think we shall not be long in want of allies .  and Marianne , still talking wildly of mama , her alarm increased so rapidly , as to determine her on sending instantly for Mr. Harris , and despatching a messenger to Barton for her mother .  I meant only myself .  `` So unreasonably early ! ''  she thought .  I never was hungrier in my life .  It is a very good thing to be able to hold one 's tongue !  VOLUME II  His Mammy said , -- `` What you got there , Epaminondas ? ''  She opened the parlour door , and saw two gentlemen sitting with her father -- Mr. Weston and his son .  Their attention was called towards the others .  You knew I should not stir till my lord and master appeared. -- Here have I been sitting this hour , giving these young ladies a sample of true conjugal obedience -- for who can say , you know , how soon it may be wanted ? ''  She saw that there had been bad habits ; that Sunday travelling had been a common thing ; that there had been a period of his life ( and probably not a short one ) when he had been , at least , careless in all serious matters ; and , though he might now think very differently , who could answer for the true sentiments of a clever , cautious man , grown old enough to appreciate a fair character ?  A young lady who faints , must be recovered ; questions must be answered , and surprizes be explained .  `` I can not believe that he has not the power of coming , if he made a point of it .  They would hardly come in their chaise , I think , at that season of the year .  She had seen only Mrs. Martin and the two girls .  The next day produced little or no alteration in the state of the patient ; she certainly was not better , and , except that there was no amendment , did not appear worse .  The poor old Moon began to have a bad time of it , for the tree-trunks got in his way so that he could not go so fast as the bed , and every time he got behind , the little boy called , `` Hurry up , old Moon , I want the beasts to see me ! ''  `` Oh !  Has there been any inconsistency on his side to create alarm ?  At last , with some hesitation , Harriet said --  Little Joe could n't find a word to say .  with all her reasoning , she found , that to retentive feelings eight years may be little more than nothing .  My line of conduct will be more direct .  She had a moment 's fear of Miss Bates keeping away from her .  But it was not immediately that an opportunity of doing so could be commanded , though Lucy was as well disposed as herself to take advantage of any that occurred ; for the weather was not often fine enough to allow of their joining in a walk , where they might most easily separate themselves from the others ; and though they met at least every other evening either at the park or cottage , and chiefly at the former , they could not be supposed to meet for the sake of conversation .  Besides , she is out of health now ; but _that_ indeed , by her own account , she has always been .  INFANT SORROW My mother groaned , my father wept : Into the dangerous world I leapt , Helpless , naked , piping loud , Like a fiend hid in a cloud .  `` I know there is such an idea with many people , but indeed it is quite a mistake , sir. -- We all had our health perfectly well there , never found the least inconvenience from the mud ; and Mr. Wingfield says it is entirely a mistake to suppose the place unhealthy ; and I am sure he may be depended on , for he thoroughly understands the nature of the air , and his own brother and family have been there repeatedly . ''  `` No , no , not at all -- only a little agitated .  The small blades of grass creep thick about my feet ; the sweet rain helps to swell my shining buds .  I have erred against every common-place notion of decorum ; I have been open and sincere where I ought to have been reserved , spiritless , dull , and deceitful -- had I talked only of the weather and the roads , and had I spoken only once in ten minutes , this reproach would have been spared . ''  You may be very sure that if I had , I should have cautioned you accordingly . ''  that I had been satisfied with persuading her not to accept young Martin .  They had a ladder from the floor to the loft , and on the ladder they tied a vine all the way up to the loft , to look like the wonderful beanstalk .  `` Very well -- and as Randalls , I suppose , is not likely to have less influence than heretofore , it strikes me as a possible thing , Emma , that Henry and John may be sometimes in the way .  Do n't fancy that you will be any inconvenience to me , for I sha n't put myself at all out of my way for you .  I have had no hand in it .  I am not more alarmed about little Charles now than he is .  asked Elizabeth .  The visit was paid , their acquaintance re-established , their interest in each other more than re-kindled .  `` True , true , '' he answered , warmly .  After much thinking , she could determine on nothing better , than Harriet 's returning the visit ; but in a way that , if they had understanding , should convince them that it was to be only a formal acquaintance .  There was a little blush , and then this answer ,  `` Might he not ? -- Is not it possible , that when enquiring , as you thought , into the state of your affections , he might be alluding to Mr. Martin -- he might have Mr. Martin 's interest in view ?  `` Oh !  `` I caught it especially for you . ''  That her sister 's affections WERE calm , she dared not deny , though she blushed to acknowledge it ; and of the strength of her own , she gave a very striking proof , by still loving and respecting that sister , in spite of this mortifying conviction .  I clearly understand it now , and I will strictly fulfil my engagement by such acts of assistance and kindness to them as you have described .  no , indeed , Charles , I can not bear to have you go away .  Harriet really wished , and had wished some time , to consult a dentist .  Anne had a moment 's astonishment on the subject herself ; but it was soon lost in the pleasanter feelings which sprang from the sight of all the ingenious contrivances and nice arrangements of Captain Harville , to turn the actual space to the best account , to supply the deficiencies of lodging-house furniture , and defend the windows and doors against the winter storms to be expected .  how delightful !  Neither time , nor health , nor life , to be called your own .  Smith ? ''  Come and help !  Such a beautiful hind-quarter of pork !  Upon my word , Miss Anne Elliot , you have the most extraordinary taste !  At this moment Mr. Weston appeared at a little distance from the window , evidently on the watch .  `` When I talked of your being altered by time , by the progress of years , '' said John Knightley , `` I meant to imply the change of situation which time usually brings .  God forbid that I should undervalue the warm and faithful feelings of any of my fellow-creatures !  `` You are quite in the right ; it was most natural to pay your visit , then '' --  He had a comfortable home for her , and Emma imagined a very sufficient income ; for though the vicarage of Highbury was not large , he was known to have some independent property ; and she thought very highly of him as a good-humoured , well-meaning , respectable young man , without any deficiency of useful understanding or knowledge of the world .  You can not doubt your sister 's wishes .  She was aware herself , that , parting under any other circumstances , they certainly should have corresponded more , and that her intelligence would not have rested , as it now almost wholly did , on Isabella 's letters .  Then the Emperor cried , `` You little gold nightingale , can you not sing something for me ?  To provide for her otherwise was out of Colonel Campbell 's power ; for though his income , by pay and appointments , was handsome , his fortune was moderate and must be all his daughter 's ; but , by giving her an education , he hoped to be supplying the means of respectable subsistence hereafter .  `` Perhaps you do not know -- you may not have heard that my brother is lately married to -- to the youngest -- to Miss Lucy Steele . ''  `` I declare I can not recollect what I was talking of. -- Oh !  `` Oh ! ''  He talked of Harriet , and praised her so warmly , that she could not suppose any thing wanting which a little time would not add .  -- She thought he neither looked nor spoke cheerfully ; and the first possible cause for it , suggested by her fears , was , that he had perhaps been communicating his plans to his brother , and was pained by the manner in which they had been received .  `` Do you like London ? ''  Did not I tell you what he said of you the other day ? ''  From Harriet 's happening not to be at Hartfield , and her father 's being present to engage Mr. Elton , she had a quarter of an hour of the lady 's conversation to herself , and could composedly attend to her ; and the quarter of an hour quite convinced her that Mrs. Elton was a vain woman , extremely well satisfied with herself , and thinking much of her own importance ; that she meant to shine and be very superior , but with manners which had been formed in a bad school , pert and familiar ; that all her notions were drawn from one set of people , and one style of living ; that if not foolish she was ignorant , and that her society would certainly do Mr. Elton no good .  `` Good God ! ''  Exactly at noon , the horse turned aside from the road , into a shady grove on a hill , and stopped .  He gave me a quiet hint ; I told him he was mistaken ; he asked my pardon and said no more .  And soon afterwards , `` Jane Fairfax is a very charming young woman -- but not even Jane Fairfax is perfect .  continued Harriet -- '' these two last ! -- But how shall I ever be able to return the paper , or say I have found it out ? -- Oh !  A few minutes were sufficient for making her acquainted with her own heart .  And , indeed , though my mother 's eyes are not so good as they were , she can see amazingly well still , thank God !  `` No , THAT he is not .  Here , however , Elinor perceived , -- not the language , not the professions of Colonel Brandon , but the natural embellishments of her mother 's active fancy , which fashioned every thing delightful to her as it chose .  She was then interrupted by Harriet 's coming in ; and if Harriet 's praise could have satisfied her , she might soon have been comforted .  Even if he did not come to Camden Place himself , it would be in her power to send an intelligible sentence by Captain Harville .  Mrs. Dashwood and her daughters were met at the door of the house by Sir John , who welcomed them to Barton Park with unaffected sincerity ; and as he attended them to the drawing room repeated to the young ladies the concern which the same subject had drawn from him the day before , at being unable to get any smart young men to meet them .  But now , poor girl , her peace is cut up for some time .  They can do nothing satisfactorily without you . ''  Harriet 's staying away so long was beginning to make her uneasy .  It is just what I used to say to a certain gentleman in company in the days of courtship , when , because things did not go quite right , did not proceed with all the rapidity which suited his feelings , he was apt to be in despair , and exclaim that he was sure at this rate it would be _May_ before Hymen 's saffron robe would be put on for us .  `` What a comfort it is , that we think alike about our nephews and nieces .  `` Am I not king of the whole land ?  A cold shudder ran over the lazy man 's body , and he would have got off his horrid animal then and there , but just then the clock struck once more .  But perhaps you young ladies may not care about the beaux , and had as lief be without them as with them .  `` Very well , I am much obliged to you .  `` He was too good ! -- she could not endure the thought ! -- she would not give him such a troublesome office for the world , '' -- brought on the desired repetition of entreaties and assurances , -- and a very few minutes settled the business .  His answer was not very encouraging .  After they had been assembled about an hour , Mr. Palmer sauntered towards the Miss Dashwoods to express his surprise on seeing them in town , though Colonel Brandon had been first informed of their arrival at his house , and he had himself said something very droll on hearing that they were to come .  `` There is one subject , '' he replied , `` I hope but one , on which we do not think alike . ''  `` Yes , simpleton as I was ! -- but I am quite ashamed of it now , and wish I could forget as easily as I can burn them .  Willoughby may undoubtedly have very sufficient reasons for his conduct , and I will hope that he has .  Colonel Brandon must have some information to give .  She could undertake therefore to inform him of it , in the course of the day .  They had a very fine day for Box Hill ; and all the other outward circumstances of arrangement , accommodation , and punctuality , were in favour of a pleasant party .  After these came a second set ; among the most come-at-able of whom were Mrs. and Miss Bates , and Mrs. Goddard , three ladies almost always at the service of an invitation from Hartfield , and who were fetched and carried home so often , that Mr. Woodhouse thought it no hardship for either James or the horses .  That would be enough for us to marry upon , and we might trust to time and chance for the rest . ''  `` Oh !  `` How is it possible ? ''  She saw it with concern ; for what could a silent man of five and thirty hope , when opposed to a very lively one of five and twenty ?  Under that peculiar sort of dry , blunt manner , I know you have the warmest heart .  He dismounted , and giving his horse to his servant , walked back with them to Barton , whither he was purposely coming to visit them .  `` 'T is twelve ; I shall not forget to think of you four hours hence ; and by this time to-morrow , perhaps , or a little later , I may be thinking of the possibility of their all calling here .  That tooth of her 's and those freckles .  It struck her with dreadful force , and she was ready to give it every bad name in the world .  roll around ! ''  `` That is what I like ; that is what a young man ought to be .  But there is only one thing that can make the hair on the head of Farmer Brown 's boy rise , and as it is n't anger , of course it must be fear .  cried Mrs. Dashwood as she entered -- '' is she ill ? ''  She was sorry , but could not repent .  He would be as little incumbrance as possible to Captain and Mrs Harville ; but as to leaving his sister in such a state , he neither ought , nor would .  Such a change !  He had gone three miles round one day in order to bring her some walnuts , because she had said how fond she was of them , and in every thing else he was so very obliging .  `` You are sick of prosperity and indulgence .  CHAPTER II  But at last there seemed a perverse turn ; it seemed all at once as if he were more afraid of its being a bad sore throat on her account , than on Harriet 's -- more anxious that she should escape the infection , than that there should be no infection in the complaint .  `` But it is in Somersetshire. -- I can not go into Somersetshire. -- There , where I looked forward to going ... No , Elinor , you can not expect me to go there . ''  YOU must have seen the difference as well as I .  He certainly might have heard Mr. Elton speak with more unreserve than she had ever done , and Mr. Elton might not be of an imprudent , inconsiderate disposition as to money matters ; he might naturally be rather attentive than otherwise to them ; but then , Mr. Knightley did not make due allowance for the influence of a strong passion at war with all interested motives .  So he gave that little garden particular attention .  Each faulty propensity in leading him to evil , had led him likewise to punishment .  I can hardly keep my hands warm even in my muff .  The brothers talked of their own concerns and pursuits , but principally of those of the elder , whose temper was by much the most communicative , and who was always the greater talker .  It was possible that he might stop in his way home to ask them how they did .  repeated Emma .  He had been most warmly attached to her , and had never seen a woman since whom he thought her equal ; but , except from some natural sensation of curiosity , he had no desire of meeting her again .  Now such a story who ever heard ?  It should not , must not be a struggle . ''  `` To a Mrs. Smallridge -- charming woman -- most superior -- to have the charge of her three little girls -- delightful children .  `` Oh , did not you ?  Only to Gay Street , or farther up the town ? ''  By the craggy hillside , Through the mosses bare , They have planted thorn-trees , For pleasure here and there .  The Frogs were much pleased and a good deal frightened when King Eel came wriggling and swimming among them .  I dare not let my mother know how little she eats -- so I say one thing and then I say another , and it passes off .  Louisa seemed the principal arranger of the plan ; and , as she went a little way with them , down the hill , still talking to Henrietta , Mary took the opportunity of looking scornfully around her , and saying to Captain Wentworth --  His air , his coat , his horse .  And then the way her fingers go ; They look so quick and white , -- In and out , and to and fro , And braiding in the light , And it is always right .  It would be a disappointment to my father -- and altogether -- I do not know that -- I am rather of opinion that ten couple might stand here very well . ''  The Coles were very respectable in their way , but they ought to be taught that it was not for them to arrange the terms on which the superior families would visit them .  An ' thin she rins off home , Her outside door she locks ; Thinks she , `` You see you do n't have me , You crafty , shly ould Fox . ''  `` If I understand your brother , he only means so far as your having some thoughts of marrying .  Seems as if I could taste those berries . ''  It only added a dangerous character to himself .  `` Mr. Weston do not trifle with me. -- Consider how many of my dearest friends are now in Brunswick Square .  Even THEN , however , when fully determined on paying my addresses to her , I allowed myself most improperly to put off , from day to day , the moment of doing it , from an unwillingness to enter into an engagement while my circumstances were so greatly embarrassed .  `` Our situations have borne little resemblance . ''  She had come to Bath on that account , and was now in lodgings near the hot baths , living in a very humble way , unable even to afford herself the comfort of a servant , and of course almost excluded from society .  I see it in her cheek , her smile , her vain attempt to frown .  Why should you want to roll over ? ''  cried Captain Harville , in a tone of strong feeling , `` if I could but make you comprehend what a man suffers when he takes a last look at his wife and children , and watches the boat that he has sent them off in , as long as it is in sight , and then turns away and says , `God knows whether we ever meet again ! '  I have been expecting to hear from you , and still more to see you , every hour of the day .  But this was a vain idea .  Chapter 10  As Elinor and Marianne were walking together the next morning the latter communicated a piece of news to her sister , which in spite of all that she knew before of Marianne 's imprudence and want of thought , surprised her by its extravagant testimony of both .  But they could not be satisfied to have so much done for them and not know to whom they should be grateful .  `` Go , '' said Saul , `` and the Lord be with thee ! ''  I used to be quite angry with Selina ; but really I begin now to comprehend that a married woman has many things to call her attention .  Of course , Peter Rabbit helped spread it .  Harriet , who had been standing in no unhappy reverie , was yet very glad to be called from it , by the now encouraging manner of such a judge , and such a friend as Miss Woodhouse , and only wanted invitation , to give the history of her hopes with great , though trembling delight. -- Emma 's tremblings as she asked , and as she listened , were better concealed than Harriet 's , but they were not less .  Emma and Harriet were going to walk ; he joined them ; and , on returning , they fell in with a larger party , who , like themselves , judged it wisest to take their exercise early , as the weather threatened rain ; Mr. and Mrs. Weston and their son , Miss Bates and her niece , who had accidentally met .  It did not often happen ; for Mr. John Knightley had really a great regard for his father-in-law , and generally a strong sense of what was due to him ; but it was too often for Emma 's charity , especially as there was all the pain of apprehension frequently to be endured , though the offence came not .  They were so tiny that it did not seem possible that green lettuce leaves could come from them .  Can I see a falling tear , And not feel my sorrow 's share ?  `` But , my dear papa , you are no friend to matrimony ; and therefore why should you be so anxious to pay your respects to a _bride_ ?  And now , let me talk to you of something else .  `` I can answer for every thing of that nature , sir , because it will be under Mrs. Weston 's care .  We shall soon overtake her .  It was a long , well-written letter , giving the particulars of his journey and of his feelings , expressing all the affection , gratitude , and respect which was natural and honourable , and describing every thing exterior and local that could be supposed attractive , with spirit and precision .  He stopt .  There is safety in reserve , but no attraction .  `` The smallness of the house , '' said she , `` I can not imagine any inconvenience to them , for it will be in proportion to their family and income . ''  Mr. Knightley 's excessive curiosity to know what this word might be , made him seize every possible moment for darting his eye towards it , and it was not long before he saw it to be _Dixon_ .  `` No .  My friend Robert could not resist .  But Elinor had no such dependence ; for since Edward would still be unable to marry Miss Morton , and his chusing herself had been spoken of in Mrs. Ferrars 's flattering language as only a lesser evil than his chusing Lucy Steele , she feared that Robert 's offence would serve no other purpose than to enrich Fanny .  `` It might have been a very sad accident . ''  Once more Death begged for a song , and this time the little Nightingale obtained the banner for her singing .  He was very industrious , and the farm always prospered under his care .  It was a melancholy change ; and Emma could not but sigh over it , and wish for impossible things , till her father awoke , and made it necessary to be cheerful .  She had given him up to oblige others .  If he would act in this sort of manner , on principle , consistently , regularly , their little minds would bend to his . ''  The persons to be invited , required little thought .  Nobody thought of Hannah till you mentioned her -- James is so obliged to you ! ''  I could never doubt that you would be loved and sought by others , but I knew to a certainty that you had refused one man , at least , of better pretensions than myself ; and I could not help often saying , `Was this for me ? ' ''  `` You are prepared for the worst , I see -- and very bad it is .  `` No taste for drawing ! ''  `` It is not actually settled , but there is such a thing in agitation .  It seemed as if every thing united to promise the most interesting consequences .  `` So extremely like Maple Grove !  yes , quite indispensable . ''  They think themselves secure , you do no more than what is expected , and it raises no gratitude at all .  Sighs and fine words had been given in abundance ; but she could hardly devise any set of expressions , or fancy any tone of voice , less allied with real love .  Elton was sitting here , I remember , much about where I am now . ''  `` I never heard any thing of the kind hinted at before , I assure you , '' said Elinor .  The reasons for this alteration were at the same time related , and they were such as to make further entreaty on his side impossible .  Too bad , '' said he .  `` I think they will neither of them do the other any good . ''  He was in the Trafalgar action , and has been in the East Indies since ; he was stationed there , I believe , several years . ''  `` I hope every body had a pleasant evening , '' said Mr. Woodhouse , in his quiet way .  `` Why should you think so ! ''  Mrs. Weston , if there were an account drawn up of the evil and the good I have done Miss Fairfax ! -- Well ( checking herself , and trying to be more lively ) , this is all to be forgotten .  There was a communication before her , one which _she_ only could be competent to make -- the confession of her engagement to her father ; but she would have nothing to do with it at present. -- She had resolved to defer the disclosure till Mrs. Weston were safe and well .  I do not want the match -- I do not want to injure dear little Henry -- but the idea has been given me by circumstances ; and if Mr. Knightley really wished to marry , you would not have him refrain on Henry 's account , a boy of six years old , who knows nothing of the matter ? ''  Epaminondas , what you got on the end of that string ? ''  If Jane repressed her for a little time , she soon began again ; and though much that passed between them was in a half-whisper , especially on Mrs. Elton 's side , there was no avoiding a knowledge of their principal subjects : The post-office -- catching cold -- fetching letters -- and friendship , were long under discussion ; and to them succeeded one , which must be at least equally unpleasant to Jane -- inquiries whether she had yet heard of any situation likely to suit her , and professions of Mrs. Elton 's meditated activity .  Elinor had always thought it would be more prudent for them to settle at some distance from Norland , than immediately amongst their present acquaintance .  His cold politeness , his ceremonious grace , were worse than anything .  Anne was the nearest to him , and making yet a little advance , she instantly spoke .  Harriet Smith refuse Robert Martin ?  `` How is your niece , Miss Bates ? -- I want to inquire after you all , but particularly your niece .  She must talk to Lady Russell , tell her , consult with her , and having done her best , wait the event with as much composure as possible ; and after all , her greatest want of composure would be in that quarter of the mind which could not be opened to Lady Russell ; in that flow of anxieties and fears which must be all to herself .  No ; he would never disgrace his name so far .  I could have no other pleasure .  It is time for us to be going indeed .  She knew him ; she saw disdain in his eye , and could not venture to believe that he had determined to accept such an offering , as an atonement for all the insolence of the past .  Elinor would not argue upon the propriety of overcoming such feelings ; -- she only endeavoured to counteract them by working on others ; -- represented it , therefore , as a measure which would fix the time of her returning to that dear mother , whom she so much wished to see , in a more eligible , more comfortable manner , than any other plan could do , and perhaps without any greater delay .  Dear Emma has been to call on Mrs. and Miss Bates , Mr. Knightley , as I told you before .  `` Have not you mistaken the day ? ''  In two minutes after Charles 's preparation , the others appeared ; they were in the drawing-room .  It will be bad enough for the horses . ''  It was surely so , they said .  One is sick of the very name of Jane Fairfax .  She feared it was what every body else must think of and predict .  The sound of their singing came softly in at the palace windows .  `` How do you do my dear ? ''  and it only harasses me .  The surprise of finding himself almost alone with Anne Elliot , deprived his manners of their usual composure : he started , and could only say , `` I thought the Miss Musgroves had been here : Mrs Musgrove told me I should find them here , '' before he walked to the window to recollect himself , and feel how he ought to behave .  `` My dear Miss Fairfax , young ladies are very sure to be cared for. -- I hope your good grand-mama and aunt are well .  There was no getting at her real opinion .  `` The lady , I suppose , has no choice in the affair . ''  and is not that the commonest infirmity of declining life ? ''  Nothing can quite equal honey in Buster 's mind .  `` What is it you would do ? ''  `` See what the good saint brought ! ''  `` Are you going back to town ? ''  Your friend Harriet will make a much longer history when you see her. -- She will give you all the minute particulars , which only woman 's language can make interesting. -- In our communications we deal only in the great. -- However , I must say , that Robert Martin 's heart seemed for _him_ , and to _me_ , very overflowing ; and that he did mention , without its being much to the purpose , that on quitting their box at Astley 's , my brother took charge of Mrs. John Knightley and little John , and he followed with Miss Smith and Henry ; and that at one time they were in such a crowd , as to make Miss Smith rather uneasy . ''  He ran to the very top of the tree , so frightened that his teeth chattered , and when he looked down and saw Buster 's great mouth coming nearer and nearer , he nearly tumbled down with terror .  `` He was four years with my uncle , who lives at Longstaple , near Plymouth .  He can be of essential service to me ; and if you would have the goodness , my dear Miss Elliot , to make it an object to yourself , of course it is done . ''  So out he marched upon the floor Right under where she sat .  `` What poor Mrs. Ferrars suffered , when first Fanny broke it to her , is not to be described .  We are always meeting with some old friend or other ; the streets full of them every morning ; sure to have plenty of chat ; and then we get away from them all , and shut ourselves in our lodgings , and draw in our chairs , and are snug as if we were at Kellynch , ay , or as we used to be even at North Yarmouth and Deal .  He went to town on business three days ago , and I got him to take charge of some papers which I was wanting to send to John. -- He delivered these papers to John , at his chambers , and was asked by him to join their party the same evening to Astley 's .  He is an excellent young man , and will suit Harriet exactly ; it will be an `Exactly so , ' as he says himself ; but he does sigh and languish , and study for compliments rather more than I could endure as a principal .  Little Charles does not mind a word I say , and Walter is growing quite as bad . ''  or is it too short ? ''  How beautiful !  `` Cage ? ''  `` You like it , my Emma , as little as I feared. -- I wish our opinions were the same .  Prince Cherry wore his ring , and said nothing to anyone of the fairy's gift .  she cut a little hole in the bag ; then she poked her head out and saw where she was , and as soon as they came to a good spot she cut the hole bigger and jumped out herself .  `` I can not think there is any danger of it , '' was Emma 's calm answer -- `` and when you are better acquainted with Miss Fairfax 's situation and understand what her home has been , with Colonel and Mrs. Campbell , I have no idea that you will suppose her talents can be unknown . ''  No such importation of novelties could enrich their intellectual stores at present .  Elton ! ''  Then he took the cord to the other end of the garden and pulled it tight , tied it to another stake , and drove that down .  This appeal to her affections did more than all the rest .  The tenderest caresses followed this confession .  She had some satisfaction in finding that he was really going out of Bath the next morning , going early , and that he would be gone the greater part of two days .  `` Now tell me that he is n't afraid ! ''  said she ; `` that is the only security for its freshness ; and nothing could be easier to you . ''  In all probability he was already the richer of the two , and the Kellynch estate would as surely be his hereafter as the title .  With the view of passing off an awkward moment , Emma smilingly said ,  Unc ' Billy Possum , sticking his head out from a hollow tree , held _his_ breath .  But how she contrives it without reflecting on the character of her own father , who had himself two wives , I know not .  I have been several times in the garden with Mackenzie , trying to understand , and make him understand , which of Elizabeth 's plants are for Lady Russell .  .  But here there was nothing to be shifted off in a wild speculation on the future .  Nobody had any information to give ; and , after a few more wonderings , Emma said ,  It would hold the very number for comfort .  that is quite -- I suppose there never was a piece of news more generally interesting .  He ordered his soldiers to kill every boy baby that should be born in an Israelitish family ; he did not care about the girls , because they could not grow up to fight .  The manner in which Miss Steele had spoken of Edward , increased her curiosity ; for it struck her as being rather ill-natured , and suggested the suspicion of that lady 's knowing , or fancying herself to know something to his disadvantage. -- But her curiosity was unavailing , for no farther notice was taken of Mr. Ferrars 's name by Miss Steele when alluded to , or even openly mentioned by Sir John .  `` What did I tell you ?  They had been arrived only a few minutes , and Mr. Weston had scarcely finished his explanation of Frank 's being a day before his time , and her father was yet in the midst of his very civil welcome and congratulations , when she appeared , to have her share of surprize , introduction , and pleasure .  Scarcely a word was spoken during their return to Berkeley Street .  `` He is always out of humour . ''  And yet it is not very unlikely . ''  His attachment to them all increased .  Remember how few minutes I was at Randalls , and in how bewildered , how mad a state : and I am not much better yet ; still insane either from happiness or misery .  Her complexion was sallow ; and her features small , without beauty , and naturally without expression ; but a lucky contraction of the brow had rescued her countenance from the disgrace of insipidity , by giving it the strong characters of pride and ill nature .  And I am sure , by his manner , it was no compliment .  What are Harriet Smith 's claims , either of birth , nature or education , to any connexion higher than Robert Martin ?  It was the offer of a small house , on very easy terms , belonging to a relation of her own , a gentleman of consequence and property in Devonshire .  Indeed , when the time draws on , I shall decidedly recommend their bringing the barouche-landau ; it will be so very much preferable .  If I draw less , I shall read more ; if I give up music , I shall take to carpet-work .  There he made a huge pile of figs under the biggest of the wild fig trees , and hid himself in the pile .  How long had Mr. Knightley been so dear to her , as every feeling declared him now to be ?  Little had Mrs. Dashwood or her daughters imagined when they first came into Devonshire , that so many engagements would arise to occupy their time as shortly presented themselves , or that they should have such frequent invitations and such constant visitors as to leave them little leisure for serious employment .  He was the son of Mr. Weston -- he was continually here -- I always found him very pleasant -- and , in short , for ( with a sigh ) let me swell out the causes ever so ingeniously , they all centre in this at last -- my vanity was flattered , and I allowed his attentions .  Thel is like a watry bow , and like a parting cloud , Like a reflection in a glass : like shadows in the water Like dreams of infants , like a smile upon an infants face .  He wore the little gold ring all the rest of his life , but never once did it have to prick him hard enough to make his finger bleed .  Suddenly , out of the distance , something like a great butterfly , of white and gold , swept toward them .  I forgot your children , and trod on them . ''  She was very far from wishing to dwell on her own feelings , or to represent herself as suffering much , any otherwise than as the self-command she had practised since her first knowledge of Edward 's engagement , might suggest a hint of what was practicable to Marianne .  Upon all points of blood and connexion he is a completely altered man .  Man 's boasted power and freedom , all are flown .  Because , if you are , I shall have no scruple in asking you to take my place , and give Anne your arm to her father 's door .  .  I am sure the service Mr. Frank Churchill had rendered you , in protecting you from the gipsies , was spoken of . ''  HOLY THURSDAY 'T was on a Holy Thursday , their innocent faces clean , Came children walking two and two , in read , and blue , and green : Grey-headed beadles walked before , with wands as white as snow , Till into the high dome of Paul 's they like Thames waters flow .  Oh !  My dear sir , you are too obliging .  She seemed to be in the middle of some eager speech .  THE LARKS IN THE CORNFIELD There was once a family of little Larks who lived with their mother in a nest in a cornfield .  Benevolent , philanthropic man !  It could be protracted no longer .  Her thoughts were silently fixed on the irreparable injury which too early an independence and its consequent habits of idleness , dissipation , and luxury , had made in the mind , the character , the happiness , of a man who , to every advantage of person and talents , united a disposition naturally open and honest , and a feeling , affectionate temper .  If we were not related , it would not signify ; but as cousins , she would feel scrupulous as to any proposal of ours .  But Edward had no turn for great men or barouches .  interposed Mrs. Jennings .  `` No , ma'am ; THAT was not very likely . ''  To lose the possibility of speaking two words to Captain Wentworth in the course of her quiet , solitary progress up the town ( and she felt almost certain of meeting him ) could not be borne .  `` You may depend upon me , '' said she .  Why she did not like Jane Fairfax might be a difficult question to answer ; Mr. Knightley had once told her it was because she saw in her the really accomplished young woman , which she wanted to be thought herself ; and though the accusation had been eagerly refuted at the time , there were moments of self-examination in which her conscience could not quite acquit her .  She had no sense of superiority then .  `` To be sure he is .  It was a box , quite a big box , with a label on it that said : -- MISS MARGERY BROWN , PRIMROSE COTTAGE , 21 NARCISSUS ROAD , COLCHESTER .  He may spend the evening with his dear William Larkins now if he likes . ''  His evils seemed to lessen , her own advantages to increase , their mutual good to outweigh every drawback .  `` But you should tell them of the letter , my dear , '' said her father .  I do think he had better leave Uppercross entirely , and fix at Lyme .  Some inconvenience to your friends , indeed , might result from it -- you would not be able to give them so much of your time .  Oh !  I merely called , because I would not pass the door without inquiring after Mrs. Bates ; but I have been so pleasantly detained !  Oh !  The hum of multitudes was there , but multitudes of lambs , Thousands of little boys and girls raising their innocent hands .  `` Oh , no , '' said the little girl , `` that is just a cow , mooing . ''  Elton ! -- The stain of illegitimacy , unbleached by nobility or wealth , would have been a stain indeed .  cried Harriet , coming eagerly into the room -- `` is not this the oddest news that ever was ? ''  THE COCK-A-DOO-DLE-DOO A very little boy made this story up `` out of his head , '' and told it to his papa .  For some weeks past she had been spending more than half her time there , and gradually getting to have a bed-room appropriated to herself ; and Emma judged it best in every respect , safest and kindest , to keep her with them as much as possible just at present .  If you wish me to talk to Mrs. Hodges , or to inspect anything -- ''  I am by no means assured of his regard for me .  `` I do not doubt it , '' replied he , rather astonished at her earnestness and warmth ; for had he not imagined it to be a joke for the good of her acquaintance in general , founded only on a something or a nothing between Mr. Willoughby and herself , he would not have ventured to mention it .  After a moment 's pause he said : `` Though I came only yesterday , I have equipped myself properly for Bath already , you see , '' ( pointing to a new umbrella ) ; `` I wish you would make use of it , if you are determined to walk ; though I think it would be more prudent to let me get you a chair . ''  We shall have no occasion to open the windows at all -- not once the whole evening ; and it is that dreadful habit of opening the windows , letting in cold air upon heated bodies , which ( as you well know , sir ) does the mischief . ''  In fact , he was too surprised and frightened even to run .  Were she a woman of fortune , I would leave every harmless absurdity to take its chance , I would not quarrel with you for any liberties of manner .  `` Well , '' said Elinor , `` it is a comfort to be prepared against the worst .  When he was a little way from the bank he turned his head , and said , `` You are too heavy on my tail , little Gingerbread Boy , I fear I shall let you get wet ; jump on my back . ''  This brought his sister upon him .  II LITTLE JOE OTTER GETS EVEN WITH BUSTER BEAR Little Joe Otter was in a terrible rage .  He turned round on their coming in , and his countenance shewed that he strongly partook of the emotion which over-powered Marianne .  For my part , I think they are vastly agreeable , provided they dress smart and behave civil .  `` Oh ! ''  And away he ran .  I love to look at her ; and I will add this praise , that I do not think her personally vain .  `` What can it be , Miss Woodhouse ? -- what can it be ?  She spoke with great agitation ; and Emma very feelingly replied , `` That can be no reason for your being exposed to danger now .  The eternal gates terrific porter lifted the northern bar : Thel enter 'd in & saw the secrets of the land unknown ; She saw the couches of the dead , & where the fibrous roots Of every heart on earth infixes deep its restless twists : A land of sorrows & of tears where never smile was seen .  `` I am quite sure , '' he replied , speaking very distinctly , `` that he told me she had accepted him ; and that there was no obscurity , nothing doubtful , in the words he used ; and I think I can give you a proof that it must be so .  But as to my _letting_ her marry Robert Martin , it is impossible ; she has refused him , and so decidedly , I think , as must prevent any second application .  Donwell Lane is never dusty , and now it is perfectly dry .  We seem so beset with difficulties on every side , that though it would make us miserable for a time , we should be happier perhaps in the end .  He was often hoping , intending to come -- but was always prevented .  `` For shame !  His situation is an evil -- but you must consider it as what satisfies your friend ; and I will answer for your thinking better and better of him as you know him more .  So he stood quite still and began to talk to himself ( you remember , it was a little way he had ) , but loudly .  Lady Middleton was more agreeable than her mother only in being more silent .  He was ordered to walk to keep off the gout , and Mrs Croft seemed to go shares with him in everything , and to walk for her life to do him good .  Anxious to omit no possible precaution , Anne struggled , and said --  Ay , this comes of the peace .  To some few of the company it appeared rather a bold undertaking , considering the time of year , and that it had rained every day for the last fortnight ; -- and Mrs. Dashwood , who had already a cold , was persuaded by Elinor to stay at home .  He did n't try to get them out .  `` Indeed , Mrs Smith , we must not expect to get real information in such a line .  He had left her , promising to return ; he neither returned , nor wrote , nor relieved her . ''  A great deal of very reasonable , very just displeasure I had to persuade away .  Every body seemed injured by me .  We want to come in !  Mr. Dixon , you say , is not , strictly speaking , handsome ? ''  `` Oh !  Down along the rocky shore Some make their home -- They live on crispy pancakes Of yellow tide-foam ; Some in the reeds Of the black mountain-lake , With frogs for their watch-dogs , All night awake .  A bowing acquaintance .  said the little Tulip , `` if there are two of you , I s'pose I shall have to let you in . ''  then , do n't speak it , do n't speak it , '' she eagerly cried .  Mr. Knightley was fortunate in every body 's most ready concurrence .  They were in Milsom Street .  What an immense time Mrs Clay has been staying with Elizabeth !  Perhaps in the spring , if I have plenty of money , as I dare say I shall , we may think about building .  It was necessary to the happiness of both ; for however dissimilar in temper and outward behaviour , they strongly resembled each other in that total want of talent and taste which confined their employments , unconnected with such as society produced , within a very narrow compass .  When he came in sight of the little pool , who should he see but another fisherman there , who had already caught a fine fat trout .  `` I can not possibly do without Anne , '' was Mary 's reasoning ; and Elizabeth 's reply was , `` Then I am sure Anne had better stay , for nobody will want her in Bath . ''  .  `` God save you , '' said the horse .  They were three days on their journey , and Marianne 's behaviour as they travelled was a happy specimen of what future complaisance and companionableness to Mrs. Jennings might be expected to be .  Mr. Woodhouse was almost as much interested in the business as the girls , and tried very often to recollect something worth their putting in .  Mary exclaimed , `` Bless me !  `` Nonsense !  The continuance of their engagement , and the means that were able to be taken for promoting its end , was all her communication ; and this produced from Mrs. Jennings the following natural remark .  This letter , however , was written , and sealed , and sent .  said Little Joe fiercely .  The son looked convinced .  This event had very lately taken place ; too lately for any thing to be yet attempted by her less fortunate friend towards entering on her path of duty ; though she had now reached the age which her own judgment had fixed on for beginning .  `` How can we take you with us ? ''  Again the Elector exclaimed at its beauty , and then he turned to his courtiers , one after another , to see what they had to say .  we shall certainly take that post . ''  `` So do I. -- He is such a charming man , that it is quite a pity he should be so grave and so dull .  Their taste was strikingly alike .  To be claimed as a good , though in an improper style , is at least better than being rejected as no good at all ; and Anne , glad to be thought of some use , glad to have anything marked out as a duty , and certainly not sorry to have the scene of it in the country , and her own dear country , readily agreed to stay .  His eyes want all that spirit , that fire , which at once announce virtue and intelligence .  A man at his age -- what is he ? -- three or four-and-twenty -- can not be without the means of doing as much as that .  She did not attribute guile to any .  `` Me ! -- not at all , '' replied Mr. Knightley , rather displeased ; `` I do not want to think ill of him .  But when this passed away , when her spirits became collected , when she saw that to the perfect good-breeding of the gentleman , he united frankness and vivacity , and above all , when she heard him declare , that of music and dancing he was passionately fond , she gave him such a look of approbation as secured the largest share of his discourse to herself for the rest of his stay .  Emma listened , and then coolly said , `` I shall not be satisfied , unless he comes . ''  Buster blinked his greedy little eyes rapidly and looked again .  The Colonel , too ! -- perhaps scarcely less an object of pity ! -- Oh ! -- how slow was the progress of time which yet kept them in ignorance !  That evening seemed to be made up of exquisite moments .  They were combined only of anger against herself , mortification , and deep concern .  His ostensible reason , however , was to ask whether Mr. Woodhouse 's party could be made up in the evening without him , or whether he should be in the smallest degree necessary at Hartfield .  From his wife 's account of him she could discern Mr Smith to have been a man of warm feelings , easy temper , careless habits , and not strong understanding , much more amiable than his friend , and very unlike him , led by him , and probably despised by him .  The mother kept him until he was old enough to be taken to the princess 's palace .  Much , much beyond impropriety ! -- It has sunk him , I can not say how it has sunk him in my opinion .  she cried. -- '' Well ! ''  `` Who does he belong to ? ''  I have the pleasure , madam , ( to Mrs. Bates , ) of restoring your spectacles , healed for the present . ''  Though I think he had better not have married .  My peace of mind is doubly involved in it ; -- for not only is it horrible to suspect a person , who has been what HE has been to ME , of such designs , -- but what must it make me appear to myself ? -- What in a situation like mine , but a most shamefully unguarded affection could expose me to '' --  We may well say that `our lot is cast in a goodly heritage . '  `` And really , I do not think the impression will soon be over , '' said Emma , as she crossed the low hedge , and tottering footstep which ended the narrow , slippery path through the cottage garden , and brought them into the lane again .  His affection was all her own .  She always travels with her own sheets ; an excellent precaution .  But the army of Israel pursued them , and victory was with the men of Israel .  I'll pretend to be a little crab , and when he puts his paw in , I 'll make my dinner of him . ''  `` I promised your father that I would be your best friend , and as long as you live I shall watch over your happiness .  Knowing all this , as I have now known it many weeks , guess what I must have felt on seeing your sister as fond of him as ever , and on being assured that she was to marry him : guess what I must have felt for all your sakes .  Something of a very unpleasant nature , I find , has occurred ; -- do let me know directly what it is .  I have been used to the gratification of believing myself to earn every blessing that I enjoyed .  My dear Admiral , that post !  Her mind did become settled , but it was settled in a gloomy dejection .  The carriage -- we had disappointments about the carriage ; -- one morning , I remember , he came to me quite in despair . ''  Mrs. Ferrars came to inspect the happiness which she was almost ashamed of having authorised ; and even the Dashwoods were at the expense of a journey from Sussex to do them honour .  `` Oftentimes very convenient , no doubt , but never pleasing .  `` I have been thinking over the past , and trying impartially to judge of the right and wrong , I mean with regard to myself ; and I must believe that I was right , much as I suffered from it , that I was perfectly right in being guided by the friend whom you will love better than you do now .  Whenever he had a touch of his old colicky gout , he said it did him more good than any thing else in the world .  said the Cloud .  The little horse started at a fine pace , and in a very few minutes they overtook the other traveller , plodding along on foot .  She had led her friend astray , and it would be a reproach to her for ever ; but her judgment was as strong as her feelings , and as strong as it had ever been before , in reprobating any such alliance for him , as most unequal and degrading .  The shoemaker and his wife did not know what to make of it .  Anne could not help laughing .  Little Joe slipped swiftly into the water and swam straight to the little pool that Buster Bear would try next .  Ah !  But as he ran he called back , -- `` Thank you , again , Mr Alligator ; very sweet of you to show me where you are ; I ca n't stay to thank you as I should like : good-bye ! ''  The resolution of doing so helped to form the comfort of their evening .  But though he hunted in every room , no Zelia was to be found .  These were charming feelings -- but not lasting .  As to the sad catastrophe itself , it could be canvassed only in one style by a couple of steady , sensible women , whose judgements had to work on ascertained events ; and it was perfectly decided that it had been the consequence of much thoughtlessness and much imprudence ; that its effects were most alarming , and that it was frightful to think , how long Miss Musgrove 's recovery might yet be doubtful , and how liable she would still remain to suffer from the concussion hereafter !  X BUSTER BEAR BECOMES A HERO The news that Little Joe Otter told at the Smiling Pool , -- how Farmer Brown 's boy had run away from Buster Bear without even seeing him , -- soon spread all over the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest , until every one who lives there knew about it .  This was an affair , however , of which Lady Middleton did not approve .  While you were in the smallest degree wavering , I said nothing about it , because I would not influence ; but it would have been the loss of a friend to me .  He began -- stopping , however , almost directly to say , `` Had I been offered the sight of one of this gentleman 's letters to his mother-in-law a few months ago , Emma , it would not have been taken with such indifference . ''  Now it was the Sun 's turn .  `` He is very plain , undoubtedly -- remarkably plain : -- but that is nothing compared with his entire want of gentility .  My poor husband !  In all the trouble and sickness and fear of that time , Margaret drove her cart of bread ; and somehow she had always enough to give the starving soldiers , and for her babies , beside what she sold .  -- and was hastening to meet him , when Elinor cried out ,  `` No , I can not think that .  How little did I think ! -- The two Abbots and I ran into the front room and peeped through the blind when we heard he was going by , and Miss Nash came and scolded us away , and staid to look through herself ; however , she called me back presently , and let me look too , which was very good-natured .  He would not ask Harriet to dance if it were possible to be avoided : she was sure he would not -- and she was expecting him every moment to escape into the card-room .  And yet here are two gentlemen stuck up in it mightily at their ease , and looking about them at the rocks and mountains , as if they were not to be upset the next moment , which they certainly must be .  And I do not think Mr. Ferrars can be displeased , when he knows I have trusted you , because I know he has the highest opinion in the world of all your family , and looks upon yourself and the other Miss Dashwoods quite as his own sisters . ''  But that would be all over now. -- Poor fellow ! -- No more exploring parties to Donwell made for _her_ .  I did invite him , you know .  and with the most perfect alacrity he welcomed the relationship , alluded to the past , and entreated to be received as an acquaintance already .  For a moment he was silent ; and then added , in a tone much more guarded and demure ,  But as she wanted to be drawing , the declaration must wait a little longer .  well ! ''  You wrote in the cheerfullest manner , and said you were perfectly well , and in no hurry for me ; and that being the case , you must be aware that my wish would be to remain with Lady Russell to the last : and besides what I felt on her account , I have really been so busy , have had so much to do , that I could not very conveniently have left Kellynch sooner . ''  Lady Middleton , though in the middle of a rubber , on being informed that Marianne was unwell , was too polite to object for a moment to her wish of going away , and making over her cards to a friend , they departed as soon the carriage could be found .  A bride , you know , my dear , is always the first in company , let the others be who they may . ''  `` Ha !  `` Oh yes ! -- there is a great difference .  They were not much interested in anything relative to Anne ; but still there were questions enough asked , to make it understood what this old schoolfellow was ; and Elizabeth was disdainful , and Sir Walter severe .  I must make myself very disagreeable , or she would not have said such a thing to an old friend . ''  A few days had made a change indeed !  `` I had none .  His footsteps were heard along the gravel path ; in a moment he was in the passage , and in another he was before them .  Campbell . ''  Mr. Frank Churchill , I must tell you my mother 's spectacles have never been in fault since ; the rivet never came out again .  Mr. Perry is not gone . ''  Very happy to hear it .  All the little variations of the last week were gone through ; and of yesterday and today there could scarcely be an end .  She restrained herself , however , from any of the reproofs she could have given , and only thanked Mrs. Elton coolly ; `` but their going to Bath was quite out of the question ; and she was not perfectly convinced that the place might suit her better than her father . ''  Every one helped , and every one watched for the sprouting , with hopes , and prayers , and careful eyes .  After winding along it for more than a mile , they reached their own house .  These amazing engagements of mine -- what have they been ?  Mr. Weston , I could not have believed it of you ! ''  Suddenly , she heard a little _tap , tap , tap_ , at the door .  For many years of her life she had had two sons ; but the crime and annihilation of Edward a few weeks ago , had robbed her of one ; the similar annihilation of Robert had left her for a fortnight without any ; and now , by the resuscitation of Edward , she had one again .  The workmen came again the next day , and they were working until night , and as they were going home the tailor told them to put up the big stone on the top of the work , as it had been the night before .  The industrious man hurried back to his friend , and told him what the fairy had said .  With great surprise therefore , did she find herself prevented by a settled rain from going out again after dinner .  These days of confinement would have been , but for her private perplexities , remarkably comfortable , as such seclusion exactly suited her brother , whose feelings must always be of great importance to his companions ; and he had , besides , so thoroughly cleared off his ill-humour at Randalls , that his amiableness never failed him during the rest of his stay at Hartfield .  He had all the clearness and quickness of mind which she wanted , and he could sometimes act an ungracious , or say a severe thing .  They got on fast .  It was better to pay my visit , then '' --  `` Civil ! -- Did you see nothing but only civility ? -- I saw a vast deal more .  Fourteen minutes to be given to those with whom she had thankfully passed six weeks not six months ago ! -- Emma could not but picture it all , and feel how justly they might resent , how naturally Harriet must suffer .  To get to those beds he was even willing to bestir his poor limbs , so he sat up and felt about him for the donkey .  The worst to bear was the cruelty of the keeper .  My journey to town -- travelling with my own horses , and therefore so tediously -- no creature to speak to -- my own reflections so cheerful -- when I looked forward every thing so inviting ! -- when I looked back at Barton , the picture so soothing ! -- oh , it was a blessed journey ! ''  The Doctor is no beau of mine . ''  The human dress is forged iron , The human form a fiery forge , The human face a furnace sealed , The human heart its hungry gorge .  The last night 's ball seemed lost in the gipsies .  But two advantages will proceed from this delay .  I have given you gifts of gold and jewels , and kept you always by my side ; will you not help me now ? ''  `` It is on the other side of the river , '' said the little Jackal ; `` but we can manage it nicely , if you will take me on your back and swim over . ''  `` She has an easy time of it ! ''  She must have found the evening agreeable , Mr. Knightley , because she had Emma . ''  That is just how it came about that Little Joe Otter furnished Buster Bear with the best breakfast he had had for a long time .  `` Yes , jist here in me bag , As shure as I shtand here ; Open the lid till I pit her in : Open it -- nivir fear . ''  How nicely you talk ; I love to hear you .  papa , we have missed seeing them but one entire day since they married .  `` These would have been all my friends , '' was her thought ; and she had to struggle against a great tendency to lowness .  And as to my father , I really should not have thought that he , who has kept himself single so long for our sakes , need be suspected now .  I observed no one in particular . ''  It must be very clever , or he would not have brought it .  I can understand .  She met Mr. Weston on his entrance , with a smiling countenance , exclaiming ,  He bumped into trees and crashed through bushes and jumped over logs , and in almost no time at all he was out of sight .  She is a relation of the Colonel 's , my dear ; a very near relation .  His profession qualified him , his disposition lead him , to talk ; and `` That was in the year six ; '' `` That happened before I went to sea in the year six , '' occurred in the course of the first evening they spent together : and though his voice did not falter , and though she had no reason to suppose his eye wandering towards her while he spoke , Anne felt the utter impossibility , from her knowledge of his mind , that he could be unvisited by remembrance any more than herself .  She would not look again .  Emma shall be an angel , and I will keep my spleen to myself till Christmas brings John and Isabella .  In one point she was fully justified .  `` Ah !  She had no objection .  He knew not what to think .  `` Of his sense and his goodness , '' continued Elinor , `` no one can , I think , be in doubt , who has seen him often enough to engage him in unreserved conversation .  He was not going to have any such thing for his two `` little girls , '' as he called them .  `` I wonder now if Billy Mink is the scamp who has spoiled my fun . ''  Oh !  `` Huh ! ''  Margery did not know much about trees and flowers , but she loved them dearly ; whenever it was a fine Sunday she used to go with her mother and father to the park and look at the lovely flower-beds .  He had , probably , never heard , and never thought of any claims of Charles Hayter .  I dare say he has ; and though it may cut him off from some advantages , it will secure him many others . ''  That good lady , however , saw only that Marianne had received a letter from Willoughby , which appeared to her a very good joke , and which she treated accordingly , by hoping , with a laugh , that she would find it to her liking .  This point was just arranged , when a visitor arrived to tear Emma 's thoughts a little from the one subject which had engrossed them , sleeping or waking , the last twenty-four hours -- Mrs. Weston , who had been calling on her daughter-in-law elect , and took Hartfield in her way home , almost as much in duty to Emma as in pleasure to herself , to relate all the particulars of so interesting an interview .  To know that Marianne was in town was -- in the same language -- a thunderbolt. -- Thunderbolts and daggers ! -- what a reproof would she have given me ! -- her taste , her opinions -- I believe they are better known to me than my own , -- and I am sure they are dearer . ''  He was nice in his eating , uncertain in his hours ; fond of his child , though affecting to slight it ; and idled away the mornings at billiards , which ought to have been devoted to business .  She had been satisfied to hear and believe just what Mrs. Goddard chose to tell her ; and looked no farther .  Voices approached the shop -- or rather one voice and two ladies : Mrs. Weston and Miss Bates met them at the door .  The Admiral abused him for his want of gallantry .  He is to be married very soon -- a good-for-nothing fellow !  cried Mr. John Knightley , hearing his own name .  `` If I can come again , we are still to have our ball .  So Farmer Brown 's boy made his lunch on blueberries and then rather sheepishly he started for home to tell of all the strange things that had happened to him in the Old Pasture .  The lion and the fox and the army of Dublin went on then , trying to catch the tailor , and they kept going until they came to the place where the old white garraun was , and the old white garraun told them that the tailor and his wife were there in the morning , and `` Loose me , '' said he ; `` I am swifter than you , and I 'll overtake them . ''  image of weakness .  Emma listened with the warmest concern ; grieved for her more and more , and looked around eager to discover some way of being useful .  I will tell you the whole story another time .  Of course , the villagers heard him at once .  `` My dear sir , do not make a stranger of me . ''  I could not walk half so far . ''  Whenever one had been cut down and carried away the others talked about it , and nodded their heads , and the Little Fir Tree listened , and heard them say that when you were carried away so , you might become the mast of a mighty ship , and go far away over the ocean , and see many wonderful things ; or you might be part of a fine house in a great city , and see much of life .  and it may be a very fortunate circumstance for him , for Frank , I mean , that he should have attached himself to a girl of such steadiness of character and good judgment as I have always given her credit for -- and still am disposed to give her credit for , in spite of this one great deviation from the strict rule of right .  `` You have made her too tall , Emma , '' said Mr. Knightley .  But Elinor had more to do ; and so anxious was she , for his sake and her own , to do it well , that she forced herself , after a moment 's recollection , to welcome him , with a look and manner that were almost easy , and almost open ; and another struggle , another effort still improved them .  `` Nor , if you were , could I ever bear to part with you , my Harriet .  For a minute or two everybody forgot about Buster Bear .  What Anne first heard was --  Have I explained away any part of my guilt ? ''  It was a perpetual estrangement .  Miss Dashwood -- a subject such as this -- untouched for fourteen years -- it is dangerous to handle it at all !  I shall now live solely for my family .  But here , Elinor could neither wonder nor blame ; and when she saw , as she assisted Marianne from the carriage , that she had been crying , she saw only an emotion too natural in itself to raise any thing less tender than pity , and in its unobtrusiveness entitled to praise .  `` Dear , dear Norland ! ''  She is very fond of Frank , and therefore I would not speak ill of her .  Before the middle of the next day , he was at Hartfield ; and he entered the room with such an agreeable smile as certified the continuance of the scheme .  I am so sorry we can not stay longer ; however we shall meet again in town very soon , I hope . ''  And , my dear , whenever he comes , you had better let him look at little Bella 's throat . ''  `` A fortnight ! ''  At last the work was done , and the artist had the great statue set up in the public square of Duesseldorf , ready for the opening view .  Lord of the earth and sea , he bends a slave , And woman , lovely woman , reigns alone .  He was the brother of her friends , and he took pains to please her ; and altogether , having seen nobody better ( that must have been his great assistant ) she might not , while she was at Abbey-Mill , find him disagreeable .  Then , forgetting to think of it , she was at the other end of the room , beautifying a nosegay ; then , she ate her cold meat ; and then she was well enough to propose a little walk .  They are ripening fast . ''  They were too much like joy , senseless joy !  You might not see one in a hundred with _gentleman_ so plainly written as in Mr. Knightley .  