`` Yes , here I am , Sophia , quite ready to make a foolish match .  `` You appear to feel a great deal -- but I am not aware how you or any of Miss Fairfax 's acquaintance here , any of those who have known her longer than yourself , can shew her any other attention than '' --  Farmer Brown 's boy took the two pails of milk into the house , then out he came and started straight for the Green Forest .  It was the footprint of Buster Bear .  Here Mrs Smith paused a moment ; but Anne had not a word to say , and she continued --  `` You will not find anything very agreeable in him , I assure you , ma'am .  yes -- very -- a very pleasing young woman . ''  Now Farmer Brown 's boy did n't know that Buster Bear had come down to the Green Forest to live .  Her first attempts at usefulness were in an endeavour to find out who were the parents , but Harriet could not tell .  `` I understand you , '' he replied , with an expressive smile , and a voice perfectly calm ; `` yes , I am very drunk. -- A pint of porter with my cold beef at Marlborough was enough to over-set me . ''  Then the maid would pretend that she did not know , either ; and when she saw her mistress sitting about doing nothing , she , too , sat about , idle .  They sang together once more ; and Emma would then resign her place to Miss Fairfax , whose performance , both vocal and instrumental , she never could attempt to conceal from herself , was infinitely superior to her own .  Then the great doors shut with a clang , and the castle of fortune was closed for ever to the lazy man .  `` What do you mean ? ''  Should not you , Mr .  Well , ( returning to the room , ) I have not been able to succeed .  And it was not only that her feelings were still adverse to any man save one ; her judgement , on a serious consideration of the possibilities of such a case was against Mr Elliot .  Miss Taylor has been used to have two persons to please ; she will now have but one .  Harriet unfolded the parcel , and she looked on with impatience .  She knew that when she played she was giving pleasure only to herself ; but this was no new sensation .  Emma found that it was not Mr. Weston 's fault that the number of privy councillors was not yet larger .  In the great hall there was a gold perch for the Nightingale , beside the Emperor 's throne .  Anne kept her appointment ; the others kept theirs , and of course she heard the next morning that they had had a delightful evening .  `` I am concerned to hear of it .  `` But you must have found it very damp and dirty .  But he could n't catch the little Red Hen , because she was too wise for him .  How I shall laugh !  Like a mighty angel of blessing she stood above the earth , and lifted her head and spread her wings far over the fields and woods .  Such was her parting concern ; for after this , she had time only to pay her farewell compliments to Mrs. Jennings , before her company was claimed by Mrs. Richardson ; and Elinor was left in possession of knowledge which might feed her powers of reflection some time , though she had learnt very little more than what had been already foreseen and foreplanned in her own mind .  Miss Woodhouse , I would rather done any thing than have it happen : and yet , you know , there was a sort of satisfaction in seeing him behave so pleasantly and so kindly .  `` I do not find myself making any use of the word _sacrifice_ , '' said she. -- `` In not one of all my clever replies , my delicate negatives , is there any allusion to making a sacrifice .  That such letters , so full of affection and confidence , could have been so answered , Elinor , for Willoughby 's sake , would have been unwilling to believe .  `` These matters are always a secret , till it is found out that every body knows them .  How could it ever be ascertained that his mind was truly cleansed ?  He stopt a moment for recollection , and then , with another sigh , went on .  The confession completely renewed her first shame -- and the sight of Harriet 's tears made her think that she should never be in charity with herself again .  I saw Jane Fairfax and conversed with her , with admiration and pleasure always -- but with no thought beyond . ''  In Edward 's farewell there was no distinction between Elinor and me : it was the good wishes of an affectionate brother to both .  The intervals of sense and consciousness were believed to be stronger .  Mrs. Ferrars is one of the most affectionate mothers in the world . ''  They were only concerned that the house could accommodate no more ; and yet perhaps , by `` putting the children away in the maid 's room , or swinging a cot somewhere , '' they could hardly bear to think of not finding room for two or three besides , supposing they might wish to stay ; though , with regard to any attendance on Miss Musgrove , there need not be the least uneasiness in leaving her to Mrs Harville 's care entirely .  I little thought then -- but no matter .  It ought to be a first object , as I am sure poor Miss Taylor 's always was with me .  How soon he had walked himself into the proper resolution , however , how soon an opportunity of exercising it occurred , in what manner he expressed himself , and how he was received , need not be particularly told .  Whatever he might have heard against me -- ought he not to have suspended his belief ?  I need not tell you what is to be done .  The Lion came close and looked down into the water , -- and a lion 's face looked back at him out of the water !  `` You are so noble in your ideas ! ''  Her husband had been extravagant ; and at his death , about two years before , had left his affairs dreadfully involved .  I was miserable .  It was the delay of a great deal of pleasure and parade .  I only name possibilities .  He had heard the screaming of Blacky the Crow and Sammy Jay , and he had listened until he could n't stand it another minute .  Chapter 17  I hope we shall have her here next week .  They all seemed to remember the day , the hour , the party , the occasion -- to feel the same consciousness , the same regrets -- to be ready to return to the same good understanding ; and they were just growing again like themselves , ( Harriet , as Emma must suspect , as ready as the best of them to be cordial and happy , ) when the carriage reappeared , and all was over .  There are places in town , offices , where inquiry would soon produce something -- Offices for the sale -- not quite of human flesh -- but of human intellect . ''  There is always something offensive in the details of cunning .  `` Indeed , no , '' said father .  He could do nothing till he were assured of his fate with Miss Dashwood ; and by his rapidity in seeking THAT fate , it is to be supposed , in spite of the jealousy with which he had once thought of Colonel Brandon , in spite of the modesty with which he rated his own deserts , and the politeness with which he talked of his doubts , he did not , upon the whole , expect a very cruel reception .  this must be the very shop that every body attends every day of their lives , as my father informs me .  This was the principle on which Anne wanted her father to be proceeding , his friends to be urging him .  Mr. Knightley promises to give up his claim this Christmas -- though you know it is longer since they were with him , than with us . ''  Prettier musings of high-wrought love and eternal constancy , could never have passed along the streets of Bath , than Anne was sporting with from Camden Place to Westgate Buildings .  The scenes in its neighbourhood , Charmouth , with its high grounds and extensive sweeps of country , and still more , its sweet , retired bay , backed by dark cliffs , where fragments of low rock among the sands , make it the happiest spot for watching the flow of the tide , for sitting in unwearied contemplation ; the woody varieties of the cheerful village of Up Lyme ; and , above all , Pinny , with its green chasms between romantic rocks , where the scattered forest trees and orchards of luxuriant growth , declare that many a generation must have passed away since the first partial falling of the cliff prepared the ground for such a state , where a scene so wonderful and so lovely is exhibited , as may more than equal any of the resembling scenes of the far-famed Isle of Wight : these places must be visited , and visited again , to make the worth of Lyme understood .  `` Has he so ! -- Then I know nothing of Mr. Elton .  Margaret 's sagacity was not always displayed in a way so satisfactory to her sister .  Emma was most agreeably surprized. -- Mr .  In the daily interchange of news , they must be again restricted to the other topics with which for a while the Sucklings ' coming had been united , such as the last accounts of Mrs. Churchill , whose health seemed every day to supply a different report , and the situation of Mrs. Weston , whose happiness it was to be hoped might eventually be as much increased by the arrival of a child , as that of all her neighbours was by the approach of it .  He stopped .  Miss Carteret was very anxious to have a general idea of what was next to be sung .  It was a very useful note , for it supplied them with fresh matter for thought and conversation during the rest of their lonely evening .  She doted on him . ''  She was pretty too -- at least I thought so THEN ; and I had seen so little of other women , that I could make no comparisons , and see no defects .  Emma could not deplore her future absence as any deduction from her own enjoyment .  `` Ah , Zelia , see what you have done ! ''  `` No , indeed you are mistaken . ''  `` His name is Ferrars , '' said he , in a very audible whisper ; `` but pray do not tell it , for it 's a great secret . ''  _There_ , indeed , lay real pleasure , for there she was giving up the sweetest hours of the twenty-four to his comfort ; and feeling that , unmerited as might be the degree of his fond affection and confiding esteem , she could not , in her general conduct , be open to any severe reproach .  So far all was perfectly right ; but Lady Russell was almost startled by the wrong of one part of the Kellynch Hall plan , when it burst on her , which was , Mrs Clay 's being engaged to go to Bath with Sir Walter and Elizabeth , as a most important and valuable assistant to the latter in all the business before her .  Mr Elliot , too , it must be remembered , had not been a widower seven months .  `` Mr Elliot , '' replied Mrs Smith , `` at that period of his life , had one object in view : to make his fortune , and by a rather quicker process than the law .  This does not seem much like joy , indeed , in me -- ( twinkling away a tear or two ) -- but it will be very trying for us to part with her , after having had her so long , and she has a dreadful headache just now , writing all the morning : -- such long letters , you know , to be written to Colonel Campbell , and Mrs. Dixon .  `` We are assured of it . ''  His chance for the Kellynch estate was something , but all the honour of the family he held as cheap as dirt .  he said .  His royal robes were upon him once more ; he wore his crown and his royal ring .  It had no advantage of situation ; but had been very much smartened up by the present proprietor ; and , such as it was , there could be no possibility of the two friends passing it without a slackened pace and observing eyes. -- Emma 's remark was --  `` Oh !  It seemed as if she had been one moment too late ; and as long as she dared observe , he did not look again : but the performance was recommencing , and she was forced to seem to restore her attention to the orchestra and look straight forward .  The Miss Dashwoods had no greater reason to be dissatisfied with Mrs. Jennings 's style of living , and set of acquaintance , than with her behaviour to themselves , which was invariably kind .  An excellent thought of yours , indeed , Anne .  I could not go away you know , because of the rain ; but I did so wish myself anywhere in the world but there. -- Oh !  `` And I am sure , Sir . ''  And as it struck the third note , something came rustling and rattling out of the darkness , something that sounded like a horse with harness .  She stopped to breathe .  How unworthily occupied !  `` Miss Woodhouse has given her friend the only beauty she wanted , '' -- observed Mrs. Weston to him -- not in the least suspecting that she was addressing a lover. -- '' The expression of the eye is most correct , but Miss Smith has not those eyebrows and eyelashes .  I say awakened , because time and London , business and dissipation , had in some measure quieted it , and I had been growing a fine hardened villain , fancying myself indifferent to her , and chusing to fancy that she too must have become indifferent to me ; talking to myself of our past attachment as a mere idle , trifling business , shrugging up my shoulders in proof of its being so , and silencing every reproach , overcoming every scruple , by secretly saying now and then , 'I shall be heartily glad to hear she is well married . '  She could not endure the idea of treachery or levity , or anything akin to ill usage between him and his friend .  It was a long , long , long way down to the ground , and it certainly looked as if such a little fellow as Chatterer must be killed .  You misled me by the term gentleman .  Her congratulations were warm and open ; but Emma could not speak so fluently .  `` Emma , my dear Emma -- ''  Such an opportunity of being with Edward and his family was , above all things , the most material to her interest , and such an invitation the most gratifying to her feelings !  They were both strong young men , but one was a lazy fellow and the other was a worker .  He took the pail , but he did n't mean to take it .  `` But indeed this is quite another thing .  Her distress returned , however , on perceiving smiles and intelligent glances pass between two or three of the lady visitors , as if they believed themselves quite in the secret .  hardly could I believe the melancholy and sickly figure before me , to be the remains of the lovely , blooming , healthful girl , on whom I had once doted .  Pretty soon he saw a fox coming across a field .  Mr. Woodhouse would have been miserable had his daughter attempted it , and she was therefore safe from either exciting or receiving unpleasant and most unsuitable ideas .  I saw them turn the corner from Bath Street just now .  The workpeople then went home , and the tailor went in hiding behind the big stone .  And to have entered into a secret engagement with a young man under her uncle 's care , the son of a woman especially of such very large fortune as Mrs. Ferrars , is perhaps , altogether a little extraordinary .  The others will be here presently . ''  Between the flowers and the middle path went the seeds for that wonderful salad garden ; all the things Mrs Brown had named to Margery were there .  `` It is enough , '' said she ; `` to say that he is unlike Fanny is enough .  He never had heard of a Bear being in the Green Forest .  A man who felt rightly would say at once , simply and resolutely , to Mrs. Churchill -- `Every sacrifice of mere pleasure you will always find me ready to make to your convenience ; but I must go and see my father immediately .  If it failed to produce equal exertion , it could not be an equal conviction . ''  --  He had the curacy of Monkford , you know , Sir Walter , some time back , for two or three years .  Their first meeting in Milsom Street afforded much to be said , but the concert still more .  It seems but the work of a moment .  And there was a big barn .  Had it been allowable entertainment , had there been no pain to her friend , or reproach to herself , in the waverings of Harriet 's mind , Emma would have been amused by its variations .  More left their useless struggles and knelt beside their neighbours .  `` Yes ; and he was up again at eight to ride to covert . ''  The clock struck three times .  and she sits so upright !  said Emma playfully .  `` My father tried it more than once , formerly ; but without receiving any benefit ; and Mr. Perry , whose name , I dare say , is not unknown to you , does not conceive it would be at all more likely to be useful now . ''  `` Jane ! ''  `` And what sort of a young man is he ? ''  There was never any burst of feeling , any warmth of indignation or delight , at the evil or good of others .  `` No , none at all , '' he replied , and read on .  no !  Anyway , that is what his neighbors think .  His two other children were of very inferior value .  Miss Hamilton had left school , had married not long afterwards , was said to have married a man of fortune , and this was all that Anne had known of her , till now that their governess 's account brought her situation forward in a more decided but very different form .  What was it he saw ?  It seemed like the forerunner of something absolutely serious , which she did not wish .  Emma was most happy to be called to such a council ; and her father , engaging to think it all over while she was gone , the two young people set off together without delay for the Crown .  She could then see more and judge better .  Marianne severely censured herself for what she had said ; but her own forgiveness might have been more speedy , had she known how little offence it had given her sister .  You are endeavouring to disarm me by reason , and to convince me against my will .  How delightful ! ''  You must have known , that while you were enjoying yourself in Devonshire pursuing fresh schemes , always gay , always happy , she was reduced to the extremest indigence . ''  I have not known him long indeed , but I am much better acquainted with him , than I am with any other creature in the world , except yourself and mama .  as fast as you can !  I do not by any means engage for its being returned .  Father Brown loved Margery and Margery 's mother so much that he wanted their garden to be perfect , and that meant a great deal more work .  So acutely did Mrs. Dashwood feel this ungracious behaviour , and so earnestly did she despise her daughter-in-law for it , that , on the arrival of the latter , she would have quitted the house for ever , had not the entreaty of her eldest girl induced her first to reflect on the propriety of going , and her own tender love for all her three children determined her afterwards to stay , and for their sakes avoid a breach with their brother .  Remember it ?  But you really frightened me .  The subject was continued no farther ; and Marianne remained thoughtfully silent , till a new object suddenly engaged her attention .  The thought made her suddenly marvellously big and strong and powerful .  `` Well , '' -- he replied -- '' once more good bye .  `` I love to be reminded of the past , Edward -- whether it be melancholy or gay , I love to recall it -- and you will never offend me by talking of former times .  And poor John 's son came to talk to Mr. Elton about relief from the parish ; he is very well to do himself , you know , being head man at the Crown , ostler , and every thing of that sort , but still he can not keep his father without some help ; and so , when Mr. Elton came back , he told us what John ostler had been telling him , and then it came out about the chaise having been sent to Randalls to take Mr. Frank Churchill to Richmond .  `` Mr. Knightley was there too , was he ? ''  I understand that he intends to take orders .  Mrs. Dashwood was prudent enough to remain at the cottage , without attempting a removal to Delaford ; and fortunately for Sir John and Mrs. Jennings , when Marianne was taken from them , Margaret had reached an age highly suitable for dancing , and not very ineligible for being supposed to have a lover .  It must be so .  The theatre or the rooms , where he was most likely to be , were not fashionable enough for the Elliots , whose evening amusements were solely in the elegant stupidity of private parties , in which they were getting more and more engaged ; and Anne , wearied of such a state of stagnation , sick of knowing nothing , and fancying herself stronger because her strength was not tried , was quite impatient for the concert evening .  She had much to recover from , before she could move .  She thought so well of the letter , that when Mr. Knightley came again , she desired him to read it .  Your sister wrote to me again , you know , the very next morning .  He caught the word ; it seemed to rouse him at once , and saying only -- `` True , true , a surgeon this instant , '' was darting away , when Anne eagerly suggested --  South End is an unhealthy place .  Their propriety , simplicity , and elegance , would make them the safest model for any young woman . ''  I am sure I shall be very happy to chaperon you at any time till I am confined , if Mrs. Dashwood should not like to go into public . ''  The same warmth of heart , the same eagerness of fancy and spirits .  William Larkins is such an old acquaintance !  cried he .  `` I will go with you ; make a path ! ''  I have not seen him since seven o'clock .  Mrs. Bates was engaged to spend the evening at Hartfield , James had due notice , and he sanguinely hoped that neither dear little Henry nor dear little John would have any thing the matter with them , while dear Emma were gone .  CHAPTER 42  Consider , she is sitting down -- which naturally presents a different -- which in short gives exactly the idea -- and the proportions must be preserved , you know .  much thicker than Miss Anne 's ; and , in short , her civility rendered her quite as anxious to be left to walk with Mr Elliot as Anne could be , and it was discussed between them with a generosity so polite and so determined , that the others were obliged to settle it for them ; Miss Elliot maintaining that Mrs Clay had a little cold already , and Mr Elliot deciding on appeal , that his cousin Anne 's boots were rather the thickest .  She joined Charles and Mary , and was tired enough to be very glad of Charles 's other arm ; but Charles , though in very good humour with her , was out of temper with his wife .  `` We are expecting a brother of Mrs Croft 's here soon ; I dare say you know him by name . ''  `` Knightley ! ''  `` Ay , a very bad business indeed .  It is the greatest amusement in the world !  He is not at all a well-bred young man .  The older a person grows , Harriet , the more important it is that their manners should not be bad ; the more glaring and disgusting any loudness , or coarseness , or awkwardness becomes .  This was quite a new idea to Mrs. Dashwood ; she had never been used to find wit in the inattention of any one , and could not help looking with surprise at them both .  `` No , ma'am , he did not mention no particular family ; but he said his master was a very rich gentleman , and would be a baronight some day . ''  Why they WERE different , Robert exclaimed to her himself in the course of a quarter of an hour 's conversation ; for , talking of his brother , and lamenting the extreme GAUCHERIE which he really believed kept him from mixing in proper society , he candidly and generously attributed it much less to any natural deficiency , than to the misfortune of a private education ; while he himself , though probably without any particular , any material superiority by nature , merely from the advantage of a public school , was as well fitted to mix in the world as any other man .  You see , he was jealous of Buster Bear , and at the same time he was afraid of him .  `` I will give you a king such as you deserve ! ''  But there was no doing any thing , with Mr. Elton fidgeting behind her and watching every touch .  Their good friend saw that Marianne was unhappy , and felt that every thing was due to her which might make her at all less so .  His declining to be on cordial terms with the head of his family , has left a very strong impression in his disfavour with me . ''  It was early springtime , and few other flowers were to be seen ; but she had the birds to sing to her and the sun to shine upon her pretty yellow head .  Then the baked apples came home , Mrs. Wallis sent them by her boy ; they are extremely civil and obliging to us , the Wallises , always -- I have heard some people say that Mrs. Wallis can be uncivil and give a very rude answer , but we have never known any thing but the greatest attention from them .  `` I hope you will bring Elton , '' said he : `` but I will not trouble you to give any other invitations . ''  `` No , it is n't , '' said the little Red Man , `` I have it ; you will never see it again . ''  `` I do think it is , without exception , the best charade I ever read . ''  Anne , finding she might decline it , did so , very gratefully .  And what shoulder and what art Could twist the sinews of thy heart ?  She could scarcely eat any dinner , and when they afterwards returned to the drawing room , seemed anxiously listening to the sound of every carriage .  You would not come in and sit with us in this comfortable way , if you were married . ''  When she took in her history , indeed , her situation , as well as her beauty ; when she considered what all this elegance was destined to , what she was going to sink from , how she was going to live , it seemed impossible to feel any thing but compassion and respect ; especially , if to every well-known particular entitling her to interest , were added the highly probable circumstance of an attachment to Mr. Dixon , which she had so naturally started to herself .  `` At present , '' continued Elinor , `` he regrets what he has done .  And now , after only ten minutes notice -- Gone too without intending to return ! -- Something more than what be owned to us must have happened .  Her plan of sitting with Lady Russell must give way for the present .  That is , I know you must have seen her a hundred times -- but are you acquainted ? ''  `` I hope Mrs. Bates and Miss Fairfax are -- ''  Her heart had been long growing kinder towards Jane ; and this picture of her present sufferings acted as a cure of every former ungenerous suspicion , and left her nothing but pity ; and the remembrance of the less just and less gentle sensations of the past , obliged her to admit that Jane might very naturally resolve on seeing Mrs. Cole or any other steady friend , when she might not bear to see herself .  Anne and Henrietta , finding themselves the earliest of the party the next morning , agreed to stroll down to the sea before breakfast .  said Marianne to herself as she walked on .  They put a chair for him on the cool porch , and brought food and drink .  `` Oh !  There was no promise . ''  He had just compunction enough for having done nothing for his sisters himself , to be exceedingly anxious that everybody else should do a great deal ; and an offer from Colonel Brandon , or a legacy from Mrs. Jennings , was the easiest means of atoning for his own neglect .  She had no child to connect her with life and happiness again , no relations to assist in the arrangement of perplexed affairs , no health to make all the rest supportable .  His heart was softened in seeing mine suffer ; and so much of his ill-will was done away , that when we parted , he almost shook me by the hand while he reminded me of an old promise about a pointer puppy .  Be Thou my Guide until I find , Led by a tender hand , Thy happy kingdom in _myself_ , And dare to take command .  Miss Carteret was with her mother ; consequently it was not reasonable to expect accommodation for all the three Camden Place ladies .  I was sixteen years old when you were born . ''  .  I thought I could not be so deceived ; but now , it is clear ; the state of his mind is as clear and decided , as my wishes on the subject have been ever since I knew you .  But I live out of the world , and am often astonished at what I hear .  I really am a most troublesome companion to you both , but I hope I am not often so ill-equipped .  Louisa 's voice was the first distinguished .  If their praise is censure , your censure may be praise , for they are not more undiscerning , than you are prejudiced and unjust . ''  Billy Mink just had to laugh .  I have been walking all this way in complete suspense .  But a farmer can need none of my help , and is , therefore , in one sense , as much above my notice as in every other he is below it . ''  She is a good-hearted girl as ever lived. -- Very well upon my word .  The old gentleman died : his will was read , and like almost every other will , gave as much disappointment as pleasure .  I am sure you will like them ; indeed , you DO like them , you know , very much already , and so does my mother ; and they are such favourites with Harry ! ''  And all must love the human form , In heathen , Turk , or Jew .  `` If Mrs. Gilbert wishes to dance , '' said he , `` I shall have great pleasure , I am sure -- for , though beginning to feel myself rather an old married man , and that my dancing days are over , it would give me very great pleasure at any time to stand up with an old friend like Mrs .  It would be the natural result of your affection for her .  It does not come to me in quite so direct a line as that ; it takes a bend or two , but nothing of consequence .  There she felt her own inferiority very keenly .  Recollecting , soon afterwards , that he was probably dividing Elinor from her sister , he put an end to his visit , receiving from her again the same grateful acknowledgments , and leaving her full of compassion and esteem for him .  It seemed quite a shame , especially considering how many houses there are where fine instruments are absolutely thrown away .  `` No , no , '' said Emma , `` it will not reckon low .  No , I believe you capable of everything great and good in your married lives .  Poor Edward !  `` The Ibbotsons , were they there ?  The past , the present , the future , Willoughby 's visit , Marianne 's safety , and her mother 's expected arrival , threw her altogether into an agitation of spirits which kept off every indication of fatigue , and made her only fearful of betraying herself to her sister .  When they were above the treetops , the Tortoise wanted to say , `` How high we are ! ''  Every body knows what is due to _you_ . ''  `` I think you will like him , '' said Elinor , `` when you know more of him . ''  Every thing turns out for his good. -- He meets with a young woman at a watering-place , gains her affection , can not even weary her by negligent treatment -- and had he and all his family sought round the world for a perfect wife for him , they could not have found her superior. -- His aunt is in the way. -- His aunt dies. -- He has only to speak. -- His friends are eager to promote his happiness. -- He had used every body ill -- and they are all delighted to forgive him. -- He is a fortunate man indeed ! ''  Robert was still the jester , and his heart grew harder and more bitter with every year .  Buster Bear was in a terrible temper .  He looked as if he fully understood and honoured such a sentiment .  We really are so shocked !  `` Mary is good-natured enough in many respects , '' said she ; `` but she does sometimes provoke me excessively , by her nonsense and pride -- the Elliot pride .  I remember her telling me at the ball , that I owed Mrs. Elton gratitude for her attentions to Miss Fairfax. -- I hope this history of my conduct towards her will be admitted by you and my father as great extenuation of what you saw amiss .  `` Yes , he has been gone just four weeks , as you observe , Miss Woodhouse , '' said Miss Bates , `` four weeks yesterday. -- A Miss Hawkins ! -- Well , I had always rather fancied it would be some young lady hereabouts ; not that I ever -- Mrs. Cole once whispered to me -- but I immediately said , `No , Mr. Elton is a most worthy young man -- but ' -- In short , I do not think I am particularly quick at those sort of discoveries .  Your friend , Miss Marianne , too -- which you will not be sorry to hear .  Henrietta was perhaps the prettiest , Louisa had the higher spirits ; and she knew not now , whether the more gentle or the more lively character were most likely to attract him .  O little Cloud the virgin said , I charge thee to tell me Why thou complainest now when in one hour thou fade away : Then we shall seek thee but not find : ah Thel is like to thee .  I had not recollected it before , I declare , but it must be very bad .  I do not know what she meant , but she asked me if I thought I should go and stay there again next summer . ''  `` Ferrars ! ''  How fast I made money in her .  Oh !  what the chain ?  At all events , she told the little girl to go .  I forget what it was now , but it was something so droll ! ''  I am sure she will be pleased with the children .  Queen of the vales , the matron Clay answered : I heard thy sighs .  `` All merged in my friendship , Sophia .  But the remembrance of the appeal remained a pleasure to her , as a proof of friendship , and of deference for her judgement , a great pleasure ; and when it became a sort of parting proof , its value did not lessen .  She knew a family near Maple Grove who had tried it , and been obliged to separate before the end of the first quarter .  `` Oh ! ''  `` Upon my word , '' said Mr. Dashwood , `` I believe you are perfectly right .  A Mrs. Knightley for them all to give way to ! -- No -- Mr .  `` Do not talk to me of my wife , '' said he with a heavy sigh. -- `` She does not deserve your compassion. -- She knew I had no regard for her when we married. -- Well , married we were , and came down to Combe Magna to be happy , and afterwards returned to town to be gay. -- And now do you pity me , Miss Dashwood ? -- or have I said all this to no purpose ? -- Am I -- be it only one degree -- am I less guilty in your opinion than I was before ? -- My intentions were not always wrong .  Then he sighed again .  In such moments Anne had no power of saying to herself , `` These rooms ought to belong only to us .  If he should ever be made a baronet !  `` But you would still be reserved , '' said Marianne , `` and that is worse . ''  Such a heart -- such a Harriet !  The important Tuesday came that was to introduce the two young ladies to this formidable mother-in-law .  For one daughter , his eldest , he would really have given up any thing , which he had not been very much tempted to do .  She must have felt the improper and dangerous distinction . ''  I am afraid you must have had a shocking walk . ''  But still he went on measuring , and still he ended with ,  And how does your business go on ?  Mrs. Cole was telling that she had been calling on Miss Bates , and as soon as she entered the room had been struck by the sight of a pianoforte -- a very elegant looking instrument -- not a grand , but a large-sized square pianoforte ; and the substance of the story , the end of all the dialogue which ensued of surprize , and inquiry , and congratulations on her side , and explanations on Miss Bates 's , was , that this pianoforte had arrived from Broadwood 's the day before , to the great astonishment of both aunt and niece -- entirely unexpected ; that at first , by Miss Bates 's account , Jane herself was quite at a loss , quite bewildered to think who could possibly have ordered it -- but now , they were both perfectly satisfied that it could be from only one quarter ; -- of course it must be from Colonel Campbell .  `` I must see somebody very superior to any one I have seen yet , to be tempted ; Mr. Elton , you know , ( recollecting herself , ) is out of the question : and I do _not_ wish to see any such person .  We can not mean the same Mr .  `` Do you think , '' said the Brahmin , `` it is right for this Tiger to eat me , when I set him free from his cage ? ''  `` You see -- -- '' `` But I do n't altogether understand , '' said the little Jackal .  The hermit bowed before the messenger with great gladness , for he knew that his wish was answered .  She had good reason to believe that some property of her husband in the West Indies , which had been for many years under a sort of sequestration for the payment of its own incumbrances , might be recoverable by proper measures ; and this property , though not large , would be enough to make her comparatively rich .  `` No , Elinor , '' she replied , `` ask nothing ; you will soon know all . ''  Carefully I hold them up to the sun ; carefully I gather the dew in the summer nights ; slowly they ripen ; they grow larger and redder and darker , and at last they are black , shining , delicious .  It had been weakness and timidity .  `` My love , '' said her mother , `` you must not be offended with Elinor -- she was only in jest .  And the gates of this Chapel were shut And `` Thou shalt not , '' writ over the door ; So I turned to the Garden of Love That so many sweet flowers bore .  She is never tired of playing . ''  He valued their kindness beyond any thing , and his greatest happiness was in being with them .  The shortness of his visit , the steadiness of his purpose in leaving them , originated in the same fettered inclination , the same inevitable necessity of temporizing with his mother .  said David , `` does none dare go out against him ? ''  She joined them sometimes at Sir John 's , sometimes at her own house ; but wherever it was , she always came in excellent spirits , full of delight and importance , attributing Charlotte 's well doing to her own care , and ready to give so exact , so minute a detail of her situation , as only Miss Steele had curiosity enough to desire .  I am a great advocate for timidity -- and I am sure one does not often meet with it. -- But in those who are at all inferior , it is extremely prepossessing .  Here was a dangerous opening .  To me , who live so much alone , her conversation , I assure you , is a treat . ''  He was not exactly what she had expected ; less of the man of the world in some of his notions , less of the spoiled child of fortune , therefore better than she had expected .  She could easily conceive that marriage might not be immediately in their power ; for though Willoughby was independent , there was no reason to believe him rich .  His affections seemed to reanimate towards them all , and his interest in their welfare again became perceptible .  I do n't say that it is not a disagreeable business -- but things might be much worse. -- If we walk fast , we shall soon be at Randalls . ''  Anne was obliged to turn away , to rise , to walk to a distant table , and , leaning there in pretended employment , try to subdue the feelings this picture excited .  So you may think what a blow it was to all her vanity and pride .  When the men were going out to battle , the Dagda would set up his magic harp and sweep his hand across the strings , and a war song would ring out which would make every warrior buckle on his armour , brace his knees , and shout , `` Forth to the fight ! ''  Mr. Woodhouse soon followed ; and the necessity of exertion made him composed .  Charles Hayter had met with much to disquiet and mortify him in his cousin 's behaviour .  She wondered that Lucy 's spirits could be so very much elevated by the civility of Mrs. Ferrars ; -- that her interest and her vanity should so very much blind her as to make the attention which seemed only paid her because she was NOT ELINOR , appear a compliment to herself -- or to allow her to derive encouragement from a preference only given her , because her real situation was unknown .  She has only one maid , but , to see the work done , you would think she had as many servants as she has fingers on her hands ! ''  Mrs. Dashwood feared to hazard any remark , and ventured not to offer consolation .  His countenance , as he entered the room , was not too happy , even for Elinor .  So Margery watched .  Anne always contemplated them as some of the happiest creatures of her acquaintance ; but still , saved as we all are , by some comfortable feeling of superiority from wishing for the possibility of exchange , she would not have given up her own more elegant and cultivated mind for all their enjoyments ; and envied them nothing but that seemingly perfect good understanding and agreement together , that good-humoured mutual affection , of which she had known so little herself with either of her sisters .  He sat by her at dinner .  These are the motives which I have been pressing on you .  `` He was four-and-twenty the 8th of last June , and my birthday is the 23rd just a fortnight and a day 's difference -- which is very odd . ''  CHAPTER 6  `` Two thousand a-year ; '' and then working himself up to a pitch of enthusiastic generosity , he added , `` Elinor , I wish with all my heart it were TWICE as much , for your sake . ''  All their lives now depended on the crops of grain and vegetables which they could raise in the valley .  I go to Oxford tomorrow . ''  That 's a consideration indeed. -- But John , as to what I was telling you of my idea of moving the path to Langham , of turning it more to the right that it may not cut through the home meadows , I can not conceive any difficulty .  But once in a while a great fear takes possession of him , as when he knows that Shadow the Weasel is looking for him .  Mr. Knightley loves to find fault with me , you know -- in a joke -- it is all a joke .  Rub her hands , rub her temples ; here are salts ; take them , take them . ''  The circumstances , probably , which first opened your eyes to his character . ''  Elinor hardly knew whether to smile or sigh at this assertion .  Do not you know she calls every one reserved who does not talk as fast , and admire what she admires as rapturously as herself ? ''  The high-spirited , joyous-talking Louisa Musgrove , and the dejected , thinking , feeling , reading , Captain Benwick , seemed each of them everything that would not suit the other .  Depend upon it , he will be much farther from doing _you_ justice .  Then he picked up one of the little heads and looked at it sharply .  Have you heard from Mrs. John Knightley lately ?  Then , then , my dears , came hard times for Elsa !  It seemed the best scheme ; and yet it was not so good but that many of them wanted a better .  can he be deceitful ? ''  If you want any farther explanation , '' continued he , smiling , `` they are paid for it .  `` Yes ; it is about Miss Williams , I am sure . ''  She considered -- resolved -- and , trying to smile , began --  That Emma was his object appeared indisputable .  Tired and woe-begone , Hoarse with making moan , Arm in arm , seven days They traced the desert ways .  Mama saw him here once before ; -- but I was with my uncle at Weymouth .  `` You think so , do you ? -- I wanted the opinion of some one who could really judge .  The Moon laughed at the sight ; but when Little Jack Rollaround saw the Moon , he called out , `` Open the door , old Moon !  To talk would be only to irritate. -- She wrote to her , therefore , kindly , but decisively , to beg that she would not , at present , come to Hartfield ; acknowledging it to be her conviction , that all farther confidential discussion of _one_ topic had better be avoided ; and hoping , that if a few days were allowed to pass before they met again , except in the company of others -- she objected only to a tete-a-tete -- they might be able to act as if they had forgotten the conversation of yesterday. -- Harriet submitted , and approved , and was grateful .  said Elinor , `` do you call Colonel Brandon infirm ?  She knew that his mother neither behaved to him so as to make his home comfortable at present , nor to give him any assurance that he might form a home for himself , without strictly attending to her views for his aggrandizement .  `` With me ! ''  `` But how shall we prove anything ? ''  He had no concealments with me .  `` Anything that you will do , I will do , '' said the tailor .  When he awoke the church was dark and still , and he was all alone .  She gave a moment 's recollection , as they hurried along , to the little circumstances which the same spots had witnessed earlier in the morning .  THE LITTLE FIR TREE When I was a very little girl some one , probably my mother , read to me Hans Christian Andersen 's story of the Little Fir Tree .  Besides in the present case , I really thought some explanation was due to you after my making such particular inquiries about Edward 's mother ; and I am so unfortunate , that I have not a creature whose advice I can ask .  Had he begun as he ought , there would have been no difficulty now . ''  I think him every thing that is worthy and amiable . ''  `` Well , and whose fault is that ?  `` The arrival of this pianoforte is decisive with me .  `` Did Mrs. Ferrars look well ? ''  I have known a great deal of the trouble of annuities ; for my mother was clogged with the payment of three to old superannuated servants by my father 's will , and it is amazing how disagreeable she found it .  `` Now I guess Farmer Brown 's boy will keep away from the Green Forest , and we wo n't have to be all the time watching out for him , '' said Bobby Coon , as he washed his dinner in the Laughing Brook , for you know he is very neat and particular .  `` But , '' continued Anne , presently , `` though there is no truth in my having this claim on Mr Elliot , I should be extremely happy to be of use to you in any way that I could .  She looked down the Randalls road .  The house was handsome , and handsomely fitted up , and the young ladies were immediately put in possession of a very comfortable apartment .  `` Not for the world , '' said Emma , smiling graciously , `` would I advise you either way .  The same books , the same passages were idolized by each -- or if any difference appeared , any objection arose , it lasted no longer than till the force of her arguments and the brightness of her eyes could be displayed .  `` Exactly so ; that is what principally strikes me .  While well , and happy , and properly attended to , she had great good humour and excellent spirits ; but any indisposition sunk her completely .  I have engaged Captain Wentworth .  If I could persuade myself that my manners were perfectly easy and graceful , I should not be shy . ''  do come in .  `` For my companion tells me , '' said she , `` that I absolutely promised Miss Bates last night , that I would come this morning .  I see that more than a mere dutiful morning visit to your aunt was in question ; and woe betide him , and her too , when it comes to things of consequence , when they are placed in circumstances requiring fortitude and strength of mind , if she have not resolution enough to resist idle interference in such a trifle as this .  She would not , upon any account , mention her having met with him the second time ; luckily Mary did not much attend to their having passed close by him in their earlier walk , but she would have felt quite ill-used by Anne 's having actually run against him in the passage , and received his very polite excuses , while she had never been near him at all ; no , that cousinly little interview must remain a perfect secret .  Yes , yes we will have a snug walk together , and I have something to tell you as we go along .  THE BOY WHO CRIED `` WOLF ! ''  It would be hard , indeed '' ( with a faltering voice ) , `` if woman 's feelings were to be added to all this . ''  And after a time they saw an Eagle , high overhead .  my dear , '' said the Admiral , `` when he had got a wife , he will sing a different tune .  And from day to day the little shoots grew and flourished till they were all well above the ground .  Oh !  That the hair was her own , she instantaneously felt as well satisfied as Marianne ; the only difference in their conclusions was , that what Marianne considered as a free gift from her sister , Elinor was conscious must have been procured by some theft or contrivance unknown to herself .  His mother took him up in her arms , and they went out to supper and left the blackberry-bush nodding up and down in the wind ; and there it is nodding yet .  The superior degree of confidence towards Harriet , which this one article marked , gave her severe pain .  Emma 's first resolution was to keep her father from the knowledge of what had passed , -- aware of the anxiety and alarm it would occasion : but she soon felt that concealment must be impossible .  It happened to catch Sophia 's eye before it caught mine -- and its size , the elegance of the paper , the hand-writing altogether , immediately gave her a suspicion .  `` But it is proved by the smallness of the school , which I have heard you speak of , as under the patronage of your sister and Mrs. Bragge ; the only school , and not more than five-and-twenty children . ''  And as for James , you may be very sure he will always like going to Randalls , because of his daughter 's being housemaid there .  Should she proceed no farther ? -- should she let it pass , and seem to suspect nothing ? -- Perhaps Harriet might think her cold or angry if she did ; or perhaps if she were totally silent , it might only drive Harriet into asking her to hear too much ; and against any thing like such an unreserve as had been , such an open and frequent discussion of hopes and chances , she was perfectly resolved. -- She believed it would be wiser for her to say and know at once , all that she meant to say and know .  But there are hopes of her being forgiven in time .  The rest of the company soon dropt in .  `` Who is this Nightingale ? ''  If dancing formed the amusement of the night , they were partners for half the time ; and when obliged to separate for a couple of dances , were careful to stand together and scarcely spoke a word to any body else .  The very last person whom one should expect to be forgotten ! -- My dear Mr. E. , he must have left a message for you , I am sure he must. -- Not even Knightley could be so very eccentric ; -- and his servants forgot it .  Sir John called on them as soon as the next interval of fair weather that morning allowed him to get out of doors ; and Marianne 's accident being related to him , he was eagerly asked whether he knew any gentleman of the name of Willoughby at Allenham .  `` Yes , '' said Anne , `` you tell me nothing which does not accord with what I have known , or could imagine .  and Mrs. Weston is so anxious to be acquainted with him , that she must be almost as happy as yourself . ''  no -- I never conceived you could become indifferent .  `` All right , Mammy , '' said Epaminondas .  I am almost sure it is , for I saw him cut it off .  A most improper match for Miss Musgrove of Uppercross . ''  They were married , married in town , and now hastening down to her uncle 's .  Harriet submitted , though her mind could hardly separate the parts , so as to feel quite sure that her friend were not writing down a declaration of love .  This was the occurrence : -- The Coles had been settled some years in Highbury , and were very good sort of people -- friendly , liberal , and unpretending ; but , on the other hand , they were of low origin , in trade , and only moderately genteel .  They contained a noble piece of water ; a sail on which was to a form a great part of the morning 's amusement ; cold provisions were to be taken , open carriages only to be employed , and every thing conducted in the usual style of a complete party of pleasure .  `` Proof indeed ! ''  It is not an employment to which they have been brought up .  He shuffled along over to the Laughing Brook , and straight to a little pool of which he knew , and as he drew near he took the greatest care not to make the teeniest , weeniest bit of noise .  Lucy does not want sense , and that is the foundation on which every thing good may be built. -- And after all , Marianne , after all that is bewitching in the idea of a single and constant attachment , and all that can be said of one 's happiness depending entirely on any particular person , it is not meant -- it is not fit -- it is not possible that it should be so. -- Edward will marry Lucy ; he will marry a woman superior in person and understanding to half her sex ; and time and habit will teach him to forget that he ever thought another superior to HER . ''  PICCOLA Poor , sweet Piccola !  Well , and so this was kept a great secret , for fear of Mrs. Ferrars , and neither she nor your brother or sister suspected a word of the matter ; -- till this very morning , poor Nancy , who , you know , is a well-meaning creature , but no conjurer , popt it all out .  Anne , I am so very unwell !  `` I have only to add , my dear Willoughby , that at Barton cottage you will always be welcome ; for I will not press you to return here immediately , because you only can judge how far THAT might be pleasing to Mrs. Smith ; and on this head I shall be no more disposed to question your judgment than to doubt your inclination . ''  You can have been acquainted with it only since I came to Bath , excepting as you might hear me previously spoken of in my own family . ''  CHAPTER 50  He , too , became a hermit , and spent his time in praise and prayer .  I felt that , as to fortune , in all probability he might do much better ; and that as to a rational companion or useful helpmate , he could not do worse .  They whispered , `` _Do you remember this ? _ '' `` _Do you remember that ? _ '' The Emperor remembered so much that he cried out loud , `` Oh , bring the great drum !  He ought not to be supposed to be paying his addresses to any one . ''  yes .  Edward is very amiable , and I love him tenderly .  `` It would be very hard , indeed , my dear , if poor Isabella were to be anywhere but at Hartfield . ''  If I were to shut myself up for ever with the child , I should not be able to persuade him to do anything he did not like .  Mrs. Dashwood could think of no other question , and Thomas and the tablecloth , now alike needless , were soon afterwards dismissed .  Come to me , Walter , come to cousin Charles . ''  `` So I remember to have heard .  Elinor saw that it WAS his hand , and she could doubt no longer .  `` You know , dear , the ground has to be made ready first ; it takes a little time , -- it may be several days before you can plant . ''  `` You had better go on , '' said she .  You will gain a brother , a real , affectionate brother .  `` And I have not forgotten , '' said Emma , `` how sure you were that he might have come sooner if he would .  It amused her to observe that all her friends seemed determined to send her to Delaford ; -- a place , in which , of all others , she would now least chuse to visit , or wish to reside ; for not only was it considered as her future home by her brother and Mrs. Jennings , but even Lucy , when they parted , gave her a pressing invitation to visit her there .  A good place is not it ?  She meant to take her in the carriage , leave her at the Abbey Mill , while she drove a little farther , and call for her again so soon , as to allow no time for insidious applications or dangerous recurrences to the past , and give the most decided proof of what degree of intimacy was chosen for the future .  There were Mr. and Mrs. Weston ; delighted to see her and receive her approbation , very busy and very happy in their different way ; she , in some little distress ; and he , finding every thing perfect .  .  Emma , your infatuation about that girl blinds you .  `` Yes , '' continued Elinor , gathering more resolution , as some of the worst was over , `` Colonel Brandon means it as a testimony of his concern for what has lately passed -- for the cruel situation in which the unjustifiable conduct of your family has placed you -- a concern which I am sure Marianne , myself , and all your friends , must share ; and likewise as a proof of his high esteem for your general character , and his particular approbation of your behaviour on the present occasion . ''  But he did n't want to go without the pretty , shiny acorn .  We do so wish that Charles had married Anne instead .  Who had been at pains to give Harriet notions of self-consequence but herself ? -- Who but herself had taught her , that she was to elevate herself if possible , and that her claims were great to a high worldly establishment ? -- If Harriet , from being humble , were grown vain , it was her doing too .  Donwell was famous for its strawberry-beds , which seemed a plea for the invitation : but no plea was necessary ; cabbage-beds would have been enough to tempt the lady , who only wanted to be going somewhere .  There now , YOU are going to laugh at me too .  This paragraph was of some importance to the prospects and conduct of Edward .  Captain Benwick listened attentively , and seemed grateful for the interest implied ; and though with a shake of the head , and sighs which declared his little faith in the efficacy of any books on grief like his , noted down the names of those she recommended , and promised to procure and read them .  THE GARDEN OF LOVE I laid me down upon a bank , Where Love lay sleeping ; I heard among the rushes dank Weeping , weeping .  It is very right that you SHOULD go to town ; I would have every young woman of your condition in life acquainted with the manners and amusements of London .  They are as fine healthy children as ever were seen , poor little dears !  Dear Harriet ! -- I would not change you for the clearest-headed , longest-sighted , best-judging female breathing .  `` My dear , '' said she , entering , `` I have just recollected that I have some of the finest old Constantia wine in the house that ever was tasted , so I have brought a glass of it for your sister .  He will be here this evening , I dare say , and then I will give it him back , and some nonsense or other will pass between us , and you shall not be committed. -- Your soft eyes shall chuse their own time for beaming .  Mrs. Jennings , with a thoroughly good-humoured concern for its cause , admitted the excuse most readily , and Elinor , after seeing her safe off , returned to Marianne , whom she found attempting to rise from the bed , and whom she reached just in time to prevent her from falling on the floor , faint and giddy from a long want of proper rest and food ; for it was many days since she had any appetite , and many nights since she had really slept ; and now , when her mind was no longer supported by the fever of suspense , the consequence of all this was felt in an aching head , a weakened stomach , and a general nervous faintness .  No man and woman , would , probably .  `` It is so cold , so very cold -- and looks and feels so very much like snow , that if it were to any other place or with any other party , I should really try not to go out to-day -- and dissuade my father from venturing ; but as he has made up his mind , and does not seem to feel the cold himself , I do not like to interfere , as I know it would be so great a disappointment to Mr. and Mrs. Weston .  Think of your mother ; think of her misery while YOU suffer : for her sake you must exert yourself . ''  The Dashwoods were now settled at Barton with tolerable comfort to themselves .  cried Sir Basil , `it is Admiral Baldwin .  but what shall you do ?  When Mrs. Jennings attacked her one evening at the park , to give the name of the young man who was Elinor 's particular favourite , which had been long a matter of great curiosity to her , Margaret answered by looking at her sister , and saying , `` I must not tell , may I , Elinor ? ''  There is always a look of consciousness or bustle when people come in a way which they know to be beneath them .  I wish -- I heartily wish it had never been .  For Marianne , however -- in spite of his incivility in surviving her loss -- he always retained that decided regard which interested him in every thing that befell her , and made her his secret standard of perfection in woman ; -- and many a rising beauty would be slighted by him in after-days as bearing no comparison with Mrs. Brandon .  `` Yes , Mr. Dixon and Miss Campbell were the persons ; and I thought it a very strong proof . ''  I suppose Lady Middleton wo n't ask us any more this bout .  I absolutely can not do without music .  They told him the little there was to tell : they had worked hard always , in the fields with their husbands , or in the house ; they had many children ; they had seen hard times , -- sickness , sorrow ; but they had never despaired .  `` Where is Marianne ?  Come , come , let 's have no secrets among friends . ''  He made her no answer ; and only observed , after again examining the room , that it was very low pitched , and that the ceiling was crooked .  They could then see that she looked very ill , were shocked and concerned , and would not stir without her for the world .  `` They are up stairs with my sister : they will be down in a few moments , I dare say , '' had been Anne 's reply , in all the confusion that was natural ; and if the child had not called her to come and do something for him , she would have been out of the room the next moment , and released Captain Wentworth as well as herself .  she whispered , when she got a chance .  What can it possibly be ?  But after the king and his Israelitish friend were dead , there was a new king , who hated the Israelites .  Why was the evil so dreadfully increased by Harriet 's having some hope of a return ?  `` It is he ; it is indeed ; -- I know it is ! ''  He was shepherd-boy for his father , and all day -- often all night -- he was out in the fields , far from home , watching over the sheep .  We must be serious and decided ; for after all , the person who has contracted debts must pay them ; and though a great deal is due to the feelings of the gentleman , and the head of a house , like your father , there is still more due to the character of an honest man . ''  Not that James ever complains ; but it is right to spare our horses when we can .  When Edward 's unhappy match takes place , depend upon it his mother will feel as much as if she had never discarded him ; and , therefore every circumstance that may accelerate that dreadful event , must be concealed from her as much as possible .  `` That is a grand pianoforte , and he might think it too large for Mrs. Bates 's house . ''  she replied with spirited earnestness , though her eyes were filled with tears as she spoke , `` do n't think of MY health .  I can not conceive a situation more deplorable .  The camp stood on a mountain on the one side , and the Philistines stood on a mountain on the other side ; and there was a valley between .  However , I sha n't say anything against them to YOU ; and to be sure they did send us home in their own chariot , which was more than I looked for .  `` And you will never see me otherwise .  His manners , though serious , were mild ; and his reserve appeared rather the result of some oppression of spirits than of any natural gloominess of temper .  To the possibility of motives unanswerable in themselves , though unavoidably secret for a while ?  Mr Elliot was attending his two cousins and Mrs Clay .  In the country , an unpremeditated dance was very allowable ; but in London , where the reputation of elegance was more important and less easily attained , it was risking too much for the gratification of a few girls , to have it known that Lady Middleton had given a small dance of eight or nine couple , with two violins , and a mere side-board collation .  Elinor perfectly understood her , and was forced to use all her self-command to make it appear that she did NOT .  My brother had no regard for her ; his pleasures were not what they ought to have been , and from the first he treated her unkindly .  Her own conduct , as well as her own heart , was before her in the same few minutes .  After a moment 's pause , Captain Wentworth said --  You must at least have felt that my being acquainted with it could not add to its safety . ''  Marianne seemed much struck .  `` It was certainly never brilliant , but she would not allow it to have a sickly hue in general ; and there was a softness and delicacy in her skin which gave peculiar elegance to the character of her face . ''  Then he made a very low bow to the Brahmin .  He drew , he varnished , he carpentered , he glued ; he made toys for the children ; he fashioned new netting-needles and pins with improvements ; and if everything else was done , sat down to his large fishing-net at one corner of the room .  She thought it probable that as they lived in the same county , Mrs. Palmer might be able to give some more particular account of Willoughby 's general character , than could be gathered from the Middletons ' partial acquaintance with him ; and she was eager to gain from any one , such a confirmation of his merits as might remove the possibility of fear from Marianne .  `` Yes ; and the set of breakfast china is twice as handsome as what belongs to this house .  Mrs. Dashwood was too much astonished to speak , and another pause succeeded .  Happily , he cut them out , and then , as it was late , he left the pieces on the bench , ready to sew in the morning .  `` Happy couple ! ''  Sure enough , just as the Jolly Sunbeams began to creep through the Green Forest , he saw Buster Bear coming straight over to the little pool .  Let me recommend Mr Elliot .  Is not that your idea ? ''  The Elector laughed heartily , but the courtiers slunk away , one after another , without a word .  Think , then , what I must have endured in hearing it bandied between the Eltons with all the vulgarity of needless repetition , and all the insolence of imaginary superiority .  `` There , papa ! -- Now you must be satisfied -- Our own dear Mrs. Weston , who is carefulness itself .  They would feel that they could trust him ; that the nephew who had done rightly by his father , would do rightly by them ; for they know , as well as he does , as well as all the world must know , that he ought to pay this visit to his father ; and while meanly exerting their power to delay it , are in their hearts not thinking the better of him for submitting to their whims .  Now , if your friends have any gratitude , they will say something pretty loud about you and me in return ; but I can not stay to hear it . ''  For Mrs. Weston there was nothing to be done ; for Harriet every thing .  Elinor had given her real opinion to her sister .  She knew the ways of Uppercross as well as those of Kellynch .  I 'll go see her my own self .  That was what happened before tea .  The Miss Dashwoods were young , pretty , and unaffected .  I abhor every common-place phrase by which wit is intended ; and 'setting one 's cap at a man , ' or 'making a conquest , ' are the most odious of all .  As the king 's daughter came near to the water , she saw the strange little basket lying in the flags , and she sent her maid to bring it to her .  As long as he does n't , he does n't belong to any one .  But as the days went on , and the eel was perfectly harmless , they stopped being afraid ; and as soon as they stopped fearing King Eel they stopped respecting him .  `` I do assure you , '' he replied , `` that I have long thought on this point , as you think now .  There is a quickness of perception in some , a nicety in the discernment of character , a natural penetration , in short , which no experience in others can equal , and Lady Russell had been less gifted in this part of understanding than her young friend .  I remember one evening the poor boys saying , `Uncle seems always tired now . ' ''  With respect to her father , it was a question soon answered .  Harriet was remembered only from being _her_ friend .  Though she did not feel the first intelligence as she might have done the day before , or an hour before , its interest soon increased ; and before their first conversation was over , she had talked herself into all the sensations of curiosity , wonder and regret , pain and pleasure , as to this fortunate Miss Hawkins , which could conduce to place the Martins under proper subordination in her fancy .  He must be gone within a few hours , though without feeling any real alarm for his aunt , to lessen his repugnance .  `` Indeed , the truth was , that poor dear Jane could not bear to see any body -- any body at all -- Mrs. Elton , indeed , could not be denied -- and Mrs. Cole had made such a point -- and Mrs. Perry had said so much -- but , except them , Jane would really see nobody . ''  It is a great way , you know , from hence to Barton . ''  We asked him to come home with us for a day or two : Charles undertook to give him some shooting , and he seemed quite delighted , and , for my part , I thought it was all settled ; when behold !  Having arranged all these matters , looked them through , and put them all to rights , she was just turning to the house with spirits freshened up for the demands of the two little boys , as well as of their grandpapa , when the great iron sweep-gate opened , and two persons entered whom she had never less expected to see together -- Frank Churchill , with Harriet leaning on his arm -- actually Harriet ! -- A moment sufficed to convince her that something extraordinary had happened .  `` No , you shall not eat it , you poor little thing , '' she said , `` for every bit of food in that house is poisoned . ''  The shock of Colonel Brandon 's errand at Barton had been much softened to Mrs. Dashwood by her own previous alarm ; for so great was her uneasiness about Marianne , that she had already determined to set out for Cleveland on that very day , without waiting for any further intelligence , and had so far settled her journey before his arrival , that the Careys were then expected every moment to fetch Margaret away , as her mother was unwilling to take her where there might be infection .  `` I have , '' returned Elinor , colouring likewise , and hardening her heart anew against any compassion for him , `` I have heard it all .  Do not run away with such an idea . ''  `` Well , Miss Dashwood , '' said Mrs. Jennings , sagaciously smiling , as soon as the gentleman had withdrawn , `` I do not ask you what the Colonel has been saying to you ; for though , upon my honour , I TRIED to keep out of hearing , I could not help catching enough to understand his business .  They was stopping in a chaise at the door of the New London Inn , as I went there with a message from Sally at the Park to her brother , who is one of the post-boys .  Anne talked of being perfectly ready , and tried to look it ; but she felt that could Henrietta have known the regret and reluctance of her heart in quitting that chair , in preparing to quit the room , she would have found , in all her own sensations for her cousin , in the very security of his affection , wherewith to pity her .  No , we should not have heard , if it had not been for this particular circumstance , of her being to come here so soon .  It now became necessary for the party to consider what was best to be done , as to their general situation .  Her jealous eye was satisfied in one particular .  interrupted Emma , `` there will be plenty of time for talking every thing over .  We were within a few hours of eloping together for Scotland .  He had been prevented setting off for Thornberry , but I really forget by what ; for I was in a hurry , and could not much attend , and I can only answer for his being determined not to be delayed in his return .  `` You are my prisoner , '' he said to the Field Mouse .  After such behaviour , as I have witnessed during the last month , to Miss Smith -- such attentions as I have been in the daily habit of observing -- to be addressing me in this manner -- this is an unsteadiness of character , indeed , which I had not supposed possible !  `` What 's this ?  We must not allow them to be verified in sweet Jane Fairfax . ''  Every body in and about Highbury who had ever visited Mr. Elton , was disposed to pay him attention on his marriage .  I would rather not be tempted .  You might not give Emma such a complete education as your powers would seem to promise ; but you were receiving a very good education from _her_ , on the very material matrimonial point of submitting your own will , and doing as you were bid ; and if Weston had asked me to recommend him a wife , I should certainly have named Miss Taylor . ''  Emma , on reaching home , called the housekeeper directly , to an examination of her stores ; and some arrowroot of very superior quality was speedily despatched to Miss Bates with a most friendly note .  `` Dear Miss Woodhouse ! ''  The next thing wanted was to get the picture framed ; and here were a few difficulties .  woe ! ''  phoo ! ''  Then he cleared his throat very loudly and began to speak .  She wanted to be of use to her ; wanted to shew a value for her society , and testify respect and consideration .  `` Exactly like father and son !  Do not you think it is quite a mistaken point of conscience , when a clergyman sacrifices his health for the sake of duties , which may be just as well performed by another person ?  `` Go to the nearest town , '' the angel said , `` and there , in the public square , you will find a mountebank ( a clown ) making the people laugh for money .  This is a connexion which offers nothing but good .  Emma 's courage returned , and she walked on .  Yes , I have one other comfort in his picture , but poor Edward has not even THAT .  But while the imaginations of other people will carry them away to form wrong judgments of our conduct , and to decide on it by slight appearances , one 's happiness must in some measure be always at the mercy of chance .  It was some minutes before she could go on with her letter , and the frequent bursts of grief which still obliged her , at intervals , to withhold her pen , were proofs enough of her feeling how more than probable it was that she was writing for the last time to Willoughby .  They had drawn back from many introductions , and still were perpetually having cards left by people of whom they knew nothing .  `` Then , my dear Isabella , it is the most extraordinary sort of thing in the world , for in general every thing does give you cold .  Come , come , this wo n't do , Colonel ; so let us hear the truth of it . ''  `` Do it yourself first , '' said the giant .  `` It was something to feel that all the rest of my time might be given to Hartfield .  He could not look enough , and presently he turned to the artist and shook hands with him , like an old friend .  Mrs. Elton 's invitations I should have imagined any thing but inviting . ''  And full of faith , when at last she woke , She stole to her shoe as the morning broke ; Such sounds of gladness filled all the air , Twas plain St Nicholas had been there !  `` Bless me ! ''  `` Very well .  At this moment they were approaching Ford 's , and he hastily exclaimed , `` Ha !  `` Ah ! ''  An ' 'fore ould Fox could think She lept right out -- she did , An ' thin picked up a great big shtone , An ' popped it in instid .  `` Well , '' said she at last , trying to recover herself ; `` this is a circumstance which I must think of at least half a day , before I can at all comprehend it .  Elton is a very good sort of man , and a very respectable vicar of Highbury , but not at all likely to make an imprudent match .  THE ELVES AND THE SHOEMAKER Once upon a time there was an honest shoemaker , who was very poor .  Her heart was really grieved .  have you met him to -- ''  _She_ could not .  I have been making a duplicate of the catalogue of my father 's books and pictures .  But you know what I am. -- You hear nothing but truth from me. -- I have blamed you , and lectured you , and you have borne it as no other woman in England would have borne it. -- Bear with the truths I would tell you now , dearest Emma , as well as you have borne with them .  She wanted to hear much more than Mary had communicated .  You did not use to like cards ; but time makes many changes . ''  As soon as they were out of sight , the ladies of Captain Wentworth 's party began talking of them .  The Author & Printer Willm .  It tipped over and spilled out a lot of the berries .  He gave back the throne with all his heart , and King Cherry ruled again , with Zelia for his queen .  What can be the meaning of it ?  The little Field Mouse looked all about the room as fast as he could , but he could not see any acorn .  `I will not say , that since I entered into the engagement I have not had some happy moments ; but I can say , that I have never known the blessing of one tranquil hour : ' -- and the quivering lip , Emma , which uttered it , was an attestation that I felt at my heart . ''  They will be delighted to come to-morrow evening .  There was no difference between him and the man who had stood on the steps at Lyme , admiring Anne as she passed , except in the air and look and manner of the privileged relation and friend .  If I could explain to you all this , and all that a man can bear and do , and glories to do , for the sake of these treasures of his existence !  Very pleasant party .  `` And I do envy him , Emma .  Poor souls !  Then she married , and had a little baby of her own .  A thousand inquiries sprung up from her heart , but she dared not urge one .  `` If I did n't know that nobody else comes fishing here , I should think that somebody had been here this very morning and caught all the fish or else frightened them so that they are all in hiding , '' said he , as he trudged on to the next little pool .  Mr. John Dashwood had not the strong feelings of the rest of the family ; but he was affected by a recommendation of such a nature at such a time , and he promised to do every thing in his power to make them comfortable .  She heard Miss Bates 's voice , something was to be done in a hurry ; the maid looked frightened and awkward ; hoped she would be pleased to wait a moment , and then ushered her in too soon .  However small Elinor 's general dependence on Lucy 's veracity might be , it was impossible for her on serious reflection to suspect it in the present case , where no temptation could be answerable to the folly of inventing a falsehood of such a description .  Simple worth is far better than rank or wealth without modesty and unselfishness -- and there is no _true_ beauty where these virtues are absent ! ''  Poor Marianne , languid and low from the nature of her malady , and feeling herself universally ill , could no longer hope that tomorrow would find her recovered ; and the idea of what tomorrow would have produced , but for this unlucky illness , made every ailment severe ; for on that day they were to have begun their journey home ; and , attended the whole way by a servant of Mrs. Jennings , were to have taken their mother by surprise on the following forenoon .  After a time , they met the little Jackal , coming gaily down the road toward them .  Musgrove , either you or I must go . ''  there was the clown , doing his silly tricks for the crowd .  Mr. Elton was so hot and tired , that all this wit seemed thrown away .  `` My dear , how am I to get so far ?  Emma was extremely gratified. -- They were interrupted by the bustle of Mr. Weston calling on every body to begin dancing again .  After clearing his throat , however , he proceeded thus --  And , by the bye , every body ought to have two pair of spectacles ; they should indeed .  At seventeen she was lost to me for ever .  And what does talking ever do you know ? ''  Every letter from her is read forty times over ; her compliments to all friends go round and round again ; and if she does but send her aunt the pattern of a stomacher , or knit a pair of garters for her grandmother , one hears of nothing else for a month .  Edward returned to them with fresh admiration of the surrounding country ; in his walk to the village , he had seen many parts of the valley to advantage ; and the village itself , in a much higher situation than the cottage , afforded a general view of the whole , which had exceedingly pleased him .  And after all , what did it signify to my character in the opinion of Marianne and her friends , in what language my answer was couched ? -- It must have been only to one end .  In this age of literature , such collections on a very grand scale are not uncommon .  Elinor had heard enough , if not to gratify her vanity , and raise her self-importance , to agitate her nerves and fill her mind ; -- and she was therefore glad to be spared from the necessity of saying much in reply herself , and from the danger of hearing any thing more from her brother , by the entrance of Mr. Robert Ferrars .  Emma wished he would be less pointed , yet could not help being amused ; and when on glancing her eye towards Jane Fairfax she caught the remains of a smile , when she saw that with all the deep blush of consciousness , there had been a smile of secret delight , she had less scruple in the amusement , and much less compunction with respect to her. -- This amiable , upright , perfect Jane Fairfax was apparently cherishing very reprehensible feelings .  he cried ; `` I am your brother , Robert of Sicily !  Irish , I dare say . ''  aye , I know your scruples .  But do not imagine that I did not feel it an evil in itself . ''  In such circumstances , it was better for both that they should not be long together ; and the restless state of Marianne 's mind not only prevented her from remaining in the room a moment after she was dressed , but requiring at once solitude and continual change of place , made her wander about the house till breakfast time , avoiding the sight of every body .  I did not know what to do .  And why it scatters its bright beauty thro the humid air .  And looked back , with fond regret , to the bustles of Uppercross and the seclusion of Kellynch .  Had he married a more amiable woman , he might have been made still more respectable than he was : -- he might even have been made amiable himself ; for he was very young when he married , and very fond of his wife .  He was neither so unjust , nor so ungrateful , as to leave his estate from his nephew ; -- but he left it to him on such terms as destroyed half the value of the bequest .  _Miss_ _Woodhouse_ appeared more than once , and never without a something of pleasing connexion , either a compliment to her taste , or a remembrance of what she had said ; and in the very last time of its meeting her eye , unadorned as it was by any such broad wreath of gallantry , she yet could discern the effect of her influence and acknowledge the greatest compliment perhaps of all conveyed .  I owed it to her , therefore , to avoid giving any hint of the truth ; and I owed it to my family and friends , not to create in them a solicitude about me , which it could not be in my power to satisfy . ''  She saw nothing of the Willoughbys , nothing of Edward , and for some time nothing of anybody who could by any chance whether grave or gay , be interesting to her .  Why fade these children of the spring ?  Though her late conversation with her daughter-in-law had made her resolve on remaining at Norland no longer than was unavoidable , it had not produced the smallest effect on her in that point to which it principally tended .  His tone , his expressions , his choice of subject , his knowing where to stop ; it was all the operation of a sensible , discerning mind .  The Tortoise wanted to say , `` What business is it of yours ? ''  This had just taken place and with great cordiality , when John Knightley made his appearance , and `` How d 'ye do , George ? ''  If it were love , it might be simple , single , successless love on her side alone .  `` You were not formerly , I know .  It must be all conjecture . ''  `` Very well indeed ! -- how prettily she writes ! -- aye , that was quite proper to let him be off if he would .  They went through the particulars of their first meeting a great many times .  `` Are you expecting Miss Fairfax here soon ? ''  `` It must be a severe trial to them all .  And , in fact , you have heard all the essential already .  His father had died when he was but a baby , and although from early morning till late at night his mother sat plying her needle , she found it difficult indeed to provide food and clothing and shelter for her little boy and herself .  The evening before this great event ( for it was a very great event that Mr. Woodhouse should dine out , on the 24th of December ) had been spent by Harriet at Hartfield , and she had gone home so much indisposed with a cold , that , but for her own earnest wish of being nursed by Mrs. Goddard , Emma could not have allowed her to leave the house .  `` It says , '' she answered , `` 'I see a happy little boy in the warm , fire-lighted room .  Does it occur to you that there is any one article in which we can retrench ? ''  It is only the Palmers .  Mr. Perry was an intelligent , gentlemanlike man , whose frequent visits were one of the comforts of Mr. Woodhouse 's life ; and upon being applied to , he could not but acknowledge ( though it seemed rather against the bias of inclination ) that wedding-cake might certainly disagree with many -- perhaps with most people , unless taken moderately .  Oh !  --  He was very unkind to his first wife .  I never hear better sense from any one than Robert Martin .  Upon Lady Russell 's appearance soon afterwards , the whole party was collected , and all that remained was to marshal themselves , and proceed into the Concert Room ; and be of all the consequence in their power , draw as many eyes , excite as many whispers , and disturb as many people as they could .  Harriet turned away ; but Emma could receive him with the usual smile , and her quick eye soon discerned in his the consciousness of having made a push -- of having thrown a die ; and she imagined he was come to see how it might turn up .  Her start was perceptible only to herself ; but she instantly felt that she was the greatest simpleton in the world , the most unaccountable and absurd !  And the whole world shook and trembled with the mighty shock of that breaking .  She drew up plans of economy , she made exact calculations , and she did what nobody else thought of doing : she consulted Anne , who never seemed considered by the others as having any interest in the question .  She doubted the sincerity of this assurance no more than he had doubted it himself , and she thought of it for her daughters ' sake with satisfaction , though as for herself she was persuaded that a much smaller provision than 7000L would support her in affluence .  Their affection and pleasure in meeting was just enough to make a very creditable appearance in Mr. Gray 's shop .  After this , he made some progress without any pause .  said her brother to Colonel Brandon , in a low voice , as soon as he could secure his attention , -- `` She has not such good health as her sister , -- she is very nervous , -- she has not Elinor 's constitution ; -- and one must allow that there is something very trying to a young woman who HAS BEEN a beauty in the loss of her personal attractions .  That is good news however ; I will ride over tomorrow , and ask him to dinner on Thursday . ''  What queer fellows your fine painters must be , to think that anybody would venture their lives in such a shapeless old cockleshell as that ?  I do not like having such things so long in hand .  At last , and tolerably in his usual tone , he said ,  says Fox , `` all right .  Every thing that the most zealous affection , the most solicitous care could do to render her comfortable , was the office of each watchful companion , and each found their reward in her bodily ease , and her calmness of spirits .  Her spirits sank .  Mrs Musgrove had not a word to say in dissent ; she could not accuse herself of having ever called them anything in the whole course of her life .  Emma must do Harriet good : and by supplying her with a new object of interest , Harriet may be said to do Emma good .  `` I will , then , '' said the little Red Hen , and she took the wheat to the mill .  I can think of but one thing -- Who is in love with her ?  What are you proud of ?  She could see that it took real skill and strength to keep the line even , and to avoid the stones .  Was this how he looked to the Heavenly Father -- like a thief , a cruel mountain robber ?  `` If so , you must extend your suspicions and comprehend _Mr_ .  He made no answer ; merely looked , and bowed in submission ; and soon afterwards said , in a lively tone ,  No one made any objection but Marianne , who with her usual inattention to the forms of general civility , exclaimed , `` Your Ladyship will have the goodness to excuse ME -- you know I detest cards .  Elinor , however little concerned in it , joined in their discourse ; and Marianne , who had the knack of finding her way in every house to the library , however it might be avoided by the family in general , soon procured herself a book .  Then he went and gathered firewood , and more firewood , and more firewood ; and he piled it all up solid against the door and round the house ; and then he set fire to it !  Ashamed of being otherwise .  When he had first heard some one in the bushes where he had hidden his pail of berries , he had been very sure that it was one of the cows or young cattle who live in the Old Pasture during the summer .  But we never did .  To be in company , nicely dressed herself and seeing others nicely dressed , to sit and smile and look pretty , and say nothing , was enough for the happiness of the present hour .  He rode down for a couple of hours ; he could not yet do more ; but as he came from Randalls immediately to Hartfield , she could then exercise all her quick observation , and speedily determine how he was influenced , and how she must act .  A sudden thought had popped into his head .  It was a pity , perhaps , that he had not come last night ; for , though the child seemed well now , very well considering , it would probably have been better if Perry had seen it . ''  Then the two pretty ladies took hold of the table with the Little Fir Tree on it and pushed it , very smoothly and quickly , out of the doors , across a hall , and in at another door .  She went on herself , to give that portion of time to an old servant who was married , and settled in Donwell .  We never were so long without seeing her before , and as I was telling Mrs. Cole , we shall hardly know how to make enough of her now . ''  When they were seated in the dining room , Sir John observed with regret that they were only eight all together .  `` I think we are going to be friends . ''  Quite delightful to have you all meet so ! -- Our little room so honoured ! ''  But neither Charles Hayter 's feelings , nor anybody 's feelings , could interest her , till she had a little better arranged her own .  He does not read ? ''  How Harriet could ever have had the presumption to raise her thoughts to Mr .  Her influence would have been enough .  How very differently we feel ! -- Not think they will do each other any good !  `` I 'll believe it when I see it for myself ! ''  This rashkill iv a Fox , He tuk it in his head He 'd have the little Rid Hin : So , whin he wint to bed , He laid awake and thaught What a foine thing 'twad be To fetch her home and bile her up For his ould marm and he .  They were obliged to put an end to such an expectation .  `` I must hurry away then , to give him those thanks which you will not allow me to give YOU ; to assure him that he has made me a very -- an exceedingly happy man . ''  The former was for Sir John 's gratification , the latter for that of his lady .  Help !  She was quite convinced of Mr. Elton 's being in the fairest way of falling in love , if not in love already .  `` No , certainly not ; I shall go home in the cool of the evening . ''  `` Only one more , papa ; only for Mr. Elton .  What became of him and his crab no one knows to this day , and no one cares .  The Picture , elegantly framed , came safely to hand soon after Mr. Elton 's return , and being hung over the mantelpiece of the common sitting-room , he got up to look at it , and sighed out his half sentences of admiration just as he ought ; and as for Harriet 's feelings , they were visibly forming themselves into as strong and steady an attachment as her youth and sort of mind admitted .  A very friendly inquiry after Miss Fairfax , she hoped , might lead the way to a return of old feelings .  It was not Lucy 's business to put herself forward , and the appearance of secrecy must still be kept up .  Here they were interrupted by the entrance of a third person , and Elinor withdrew to think it all over in private , to wish success to her friend , and yet in wishing it , to feel a pang for Willoughby .  She used to be all unreserve , and to you more especially . ''  So dull , so wretchedly dull ! -- But I have much to say to you on that head , which can not be said now . ''  And what inclines one less to bear , she has no fair pretence of family or blood .  Willoughby , where was your heart when you wrote those words ?  Lord !  But he must not be addressing his reflections to Anne alone : he knew it ; he was soon diffused again among the others , and it was only at intervals that he could return to Lyme .  Yet , he must leave them at the end of a week , in spite of their wishes and his own , and without any restraint on his time .  `If _Miss_ _Taylor_ undertakes to wrap Miss Emma up , you need not have any fears , sir . '  `` Do n't say I was cross .  Lucy , with a demure and settled air , seemed determined to make no contribution to the comfort of the others , and would not say a word ; and almost every thing that WAS said , proceeded from Elinor , who was obliged to volunteer all the information about her mother 's health , their coming to town , & c. which Edward ought to have inquired about , but never did .  He had never been an unhappy man ; his own temper had secured him from that , even in his first marriage ; but his second must shew him how delightful a well-judging and truly amiable woman could be , and must give him the pleasantest proof of its being a great deal better to choose than to be chosen , to excite gratitude than to feel it .  `` Do n't be frightened , '' she said ; `` if he waits for his neighbours to reap the corn we shall have plenty of time to move ; tell me what he says to-morrow . ''  A poor widow barely able to live , between thirty and forty ; a mere Mrs Smith , an every-day Mrs Smith , of all people and all names in the world , to be the chosen friend of Miss Anne Elliot , and to be preferred by her to her own family connections among the nobility of England and Ireland !  Anne smiled more than once to herself during this speech , and entered into the subject , as ready to do good by entering into the feelings of a young lady as of a young man , though here it was good of a lower standard , for what could be offered but general acquiescence ?  After this , the little Jackal did not like to risk going near the water , so he ate no more crabs .  Her attention was now claimed by Mr. Woodhouse , who being , according to his custom on such occasions , making the circle of his guests , and paying his particular compliments to the ladies , was ending with her -- and with all his mildest urbanity , said ,  Between ourselves , I think it a great pity Henrietta did not remain at Lyme as long as Louisa ; it would have kept her a little out of his way .  But really I never understood that you were at all connected with that family , and therefore I am a little surprised , I confess , at so serious an inquiry into her character . ''  asked Billy Mink .  On the morning of the third day however , the gloomy anticipations of both were almost done away ; for when Mr. Harris arrived , he declared his patient materially better .  I wish you would try to understand what an amiable young man may be likely to feel in directly opposing those , whom as child and boy he has been looking up to all his life . ''  For , though shy , he did not seem reserved ; it had rather the appearance of feelings glad to burst their usual restraints ; and having talked of poetry , the richness of the present age , and gone through a brief comparison of opinion as to the first-rate poets , trying to ascertain whether Marmion or The Lady of the Lake were to be preferred , and how ranked the Giaour and The Bride of Abydos ; and moreover , how the Giaour was to be pronounced , he showed himself so intimately acquainted with all the tenderest songs of the one poet , and all the impassioned descriptions of hopeless agony of the other ; he repeated , with such tremulous feeling , the various lines which imaged a broken heart , or a mind destroyed by wretchedness , and looked so entirely as if he meant to be understood , that she ventured to hope he did not always read only poetry , and to say , that she thought it was the misfortune of poetry to be seldom safely enjoyed by those who enjoyed it completely ; and that the strong feelings which alone could estimate it truly were the very feelings which ought to taste it but sparingly .  However , at any rate , as I have a great deal more at stake on this point than anybody else can have , I think it rather unnecessary in you to be advising me . ''  `` And I will tell you our reason , '' she added , `` and all about it .  Why are Eyelids stord with arrows ready drawn , Where a thousand fighting men in ambush lie !  She had little hope of success ; but Elizabeth , who in the event of such a reverse would be so much more to be pitied than herself , should never , she thought , have reason to reproach her for giving no warning .  The tailor said he would not loose him until he came back himself .  Should he ever propose to me ( which I have very little reason to imagine he has any thought of doing ) , I shall not accept him .  I am always watching her to admire ; and I do pity her from my heart . ''  yes -- but how they were conveyed hither ? -- the manner of their coming ? ''  --  `` That is very true , '' replied her mother , `` but of her society , separately from that of other people , you will scarcely have any thing at all , and you will almost always appear in public with Lady Middleton . ''  `` My brother and sister have promised us a visit in the spring , or summer at farthest , '' continued Mrs. Elton ; `` and that will be our time for exploring .  What instances must pass before them of ardent , disinterested , self-denying attachment , of heroism , fortitude , patience , resignation : of all the conflicts and all the sacrifices that ennoble us most .  The next remove was to the house ; they must all go in and eat ; -- and they were all seated and busy , and still Frank Churchill did not come .  `` This , '' said he , `` can not hold ; but a change , a total change of sentiments -- No , no , do not desire it ; for when the romantic refinements of a young mind are obliged to give way , how frequently are they succeeded by such opinions as are but too common , and too dangerous !  A brave little company of pioneers from the Atlantic coast crossed the Mississippi River and journeyed across the plains of Central North America in big covered wagons with many horses , and finally succeeded in climbing to the top of the great Rockies and down again into a valley in the very midst of the mountains .  Materials were at hand , on a separate table ; he went to it , and nearly turning his back to them all , was engrossed by writing .  my dear ; but so much as Patty has to do ! -- And it is a kindness to employ our men . ''  Mrs. Elton then said , `` Nobody can think less of dress in general than I do -- but upon such an occasion as this , when every body 's eyes are so much upon me , and in compliment to the Westons -- who I have no doubt are giving this ball chiefly to do me honour -- I would not wish to be inferior to others .  I wish you may receive this in time to come here to-night , but I will not depend on it .  Could she be secure of that , indeed , of his never marrying at all , she believed she should be perfectly satisfied. -- Let him but continue the same Mr. Knightley to her and her father , the same Mr. Knightley to all the world ; let Donwell and Hartfield lose none of their precious intercourse of friendship and confidence , and her peace would be fully secured. -- Marriage , in fact , would not do for her .  Fortune came , his prize-money as lieutenant being great ; promotion , too , came at last ; but Fanny Harville did not live to know it .  After a pause of wonder , she exclaimed --  Sometimes Mr. Elton predominated , sometimes the Martins ; and each was occasionally useful as a check to the other .  `` Make a light , old Moon , '' he said ; `` I want the people to see me ! ''  I dare say Miss Nash would envy you such an opportunity as this of being married .  Till they all come in I shall not be missed ; and when they do , will you have the goodness to say that I am gone ? ''  Now like a mighty wild they raise to heaven the voice of song , Or like harmonious thunderings the seats of heaven among : Beneath them sit the aged man , wise guardians of the poor .  `` Yes , '' said he , `` they were married last week , and are now at Dawlish . ''  They did as they were desired ; and by the time she judged it reasonable to have done with her boot , she had the comfort of farther delay in her power , being overtaken by a child from the cottage , setting out , according to orders , with her pitcher , to fetch broth from Hartfield .  THE ADVENTURES OF THE LITTLE FIELD MOUSE Once upon a time , there was a little brown Field Mouse ; and one day he was out in the fields to see what he could find .  My dear Mrs. Weston , do not take to match-making .  `` But I ought to have looked about me more , '' said Anne , conscious while she spoke that there had in fact been no want of looking about , that the object only had been deficient .  The party was divided and disposed of on two contiguous benches : Anne was among those on the foremost , and Mr Elliot had manoeuvred so well , with the assistance of his friend Colonel Wallis , as to have a seat by her .  `` When I see him again , '' said Elinor to herself , as the door shut him out , `` I shall see him the husband of Lucy . ''  `` Harriet , poor Harriet ! ''  But while she wondered at the difference of the two young men , she did not find that the emptiness of conceit of the one , put her out of all charity with the modesty and worth of the other .  said Frank Churchill .  To suffer you all to be so deceived ; to see your sister -- but what could I do ?  They stole little Bridget For seven years long ; When she came down again Her friends were all gone .  Yet as she was convinced that Marianne 's affection for Willoughby , could leave no hope of Colonel Brandon 's success , whatever the event of that affection might be , and at the same time wished to shield her conduct from censure , she thought it most prudent and kind , after some consideration , to say more than she really knew or believed .  shouted the little boy .  Do you think he had the Elliot countenance ?  She had hardly been able to speak a word , and every look and action had shewn how deeply she was suffering from consciousness .  `` Choice ! -- how do you mean ? ''  There must be ample room in it for every real comfort .  Emma was quite relieved , and could presently say , with a little more composure ,  She would keep the peace if possible ; and there was something honourable and valuable in the strong domestic habits , the all-sufficiency of home to himself , whence resulted her brother 's disposition to look down on the common rate of social intercourse , and those to whom it was important. -- It had a high claim to forbearance .  But when he came , after a long , tiring walk to the village , and the square , alas !  `` I am sorry we can not see your sister , Miss Dashwood , '' said Miss Steele .  With an alacrity beyond the common impulse of a spirit which yet was never indifferent to the credit of doing every thing well and attentively , with the real good-will of a mind delighted with its own ideas , did she then do all the honours of the meal , and help and recommend the minced chicken and scalloped oysters , with an urgency which she knew would be acceptable to the early hours and civil scruples of their guests .  Is your loss such as leaves no opening for consolation ?  `` I must go , uncertain of my fate ; but I shall return hither , or follow your party , as soon as possible .  I have observed , Mrs. Elton , in the course of my life , that if things are going untowardly one month , they are sure to mend the next . ''  Neither Mr. Suckling nor me had ever any patience with them ; and we used sometimes to say very cutting things !  Isabella can not bear to stay behind her husband . ''  The Whale began to pull , and the Elephant began to pull , and in a jiffy the rope tightened till it was stretched as hard as could be .  Elinor , though she felt really interested in the welfare of Colonel Brandon , could not bestow all the wonder on his going so suddenly away , which Mrs. Jennings was desirous of her feeling ; for besides that the circumstance did not in her opinion justify such lasting amazement or variety of speculation , her wonder was otherwise disposed of .  Marianne , who had never much toleration for any thing like impertinence , vulgarity , inferiority of parts , or even difference of taste from herself , was at this time particularly ill-disposed , from the state of her spirits , to be pleased with the Miss Steeles , or to encourage their advances ; and to the invariable coldness of her behaviour towards them , which checked every endeavour at intimacy on their side , Elinor principally attributed that preference of herself which soon became evident in the manners of both , but especially of Lucy , who missed no opportunity of engaging her in conversation , or of striving to improve their acquaintance by an easy and frank communication of her sentiments .  His understanding was good , and his education had given it solid improvement .  And as she could now have nothing more painful to hear on the subject than had already been told , she did not mistrust her own ability of going through a repetition of particulars with composure .  I am sure she would rather not come ; she can not feel easy with us .  There he lay groaning for many minutes , for it was not a soft place , I can assure you .  Another story that they acted was _Cinderella_ .  `` In defence of your protege you can even be saucy . ''  snapped Little Joe Otter .  He was quite alone , for all the courtiers had gone to congratulate the new emperor , and all the servants had gone to talk it over .  `` Brother Alligator , oh , Brother Alligator ! ''  Mr. Knightley , who had nothing of ceremony about him , was offering by his short , decided answers , an amusing contrast to the protracted apologies and civil hesitations of the other .  `` Why ? ''  This , though late , and reluctant , and ungracious , was yet better than nothing , and her spirits improved .  `` But I hate to hear you talking so like a fine gentleman , and as if women were all fine ladies , instead of rational creatures .  yes -- Mr. Knightley and I both saying we liked it , and Mr. Elton 's seeming resolved to learn to like it too .  And now to chuse the mortification of Mrs. Elton 's notice and the penury of her conversation , rather than return to the superior companions who have always loved her with such real , generous affection . ''  Her making a fourth , when they sat down to dinner , was noticed as an advantage .  The wind roared round the house , and the rain beat against the windows ; but Elinor , all happiness within , regarded it not .  `` My dear Mary , recollect what a comfortable account you sent me of yourself !  I left them there and came on to Hartfield , impatient for your opinion , and hoping you might be persuaded to join them and give your advice on the spot .  She then left the room ; and Elinor dared not follow her to say more , for bound as she was by her promise of secrecy to Lucy , she could give no information that would convince Marianne ; and painful as the consequences of her still continuing in an error might be , she was obliged to submit to it .  Not a speck on them . ''  The passing admiration of Mr Elliot had at least roused him , and the scenes on the Cobb and at Captain Harville 's had fixed her superiority .  In my heart I feel little -- scarcely any doubt of his preference .  THE HUMAN ABSTRACT Pity would be no more If we did not make somebody poor , And Mercy no more could be If all were as happy as we .  --  We are all afraid of him . ''  `` Here is April come ! ''  Weston . ]  Ferrars ! ''  `` Mrs. Bates , let me propose your venturing on one of these eggs .  Where _I_ sit is of no consequence .  Captain Benwick had some time ago been first lieutenant of the Laconia ; and the account which Captain Wentworth had given of him , on his return from Lyme before , his warm praise of him as an excellent young man and an officer , whom he had always valued highly , which must have stamped him well in the esteem of every listener , had been followed by a little history of his private life , which rendered him perfectly interesting in the eyes of all the ladies .  I do not reckon the Hayters as anybody .  `` No , Billy , '' said he , `` you are wrong , altogether wrong .  He had no reason to wish his hair longer , to conceal any confusion of face ; no reason to wish the money unspent , to improve his spirits .  Her knowledge of her father and Elizabeth inclined her to think that the sacrifice of one pair of horses would be hardly less painful than of both , and so on , through the whole list of Lady Russell 's too gentle reductions .  LAUGHING SONG When the green woods laugh with the voice of joy , And the dimpling stream runs laughing by ; When the air does laugh with our merry wit , And the green hill laughs with the noise of it ; when the meadows laugh with lively green , And the grasshopper laughs in the merry scene , When Mary and Susan and Emily With their sweet round mouths sing `` Ha , ha he ! ''  But I only mean to say that there are advertising offices , and that by applying to them I should have no doubt of very soon meeting with something that would do . ''  These were thoughts , with their attendant visions , which occupied and flurried her too much to leave her any power of observation ; and she passed along the room without having a glimpse of him , without even trying to discern him .  They secure an introduction .  I always thought it such a sweet place , ma'am !  `` It is all very strange .  `` Not the least in the world. -- Did he ever give you any thing ? ''  very true .  I wish he could have such company oftener .  She then took another line of expediency , and looking into the doubtful room , observed ,  `` Indeed , Marianne , I think you are mistaken .  He contrived that she should be seated by him ; and was sufficiently employed in looking out the best baked apple for her , and trying to make her help or advise him in his work , till Jane Fairfax was quite ready to sit down to the pianoforte again .  While you were at all in suspense I kept my feelings to myself , but now that you are so completely decided I have no hesitation in approving .  She watched , observed , reflected , and finally determined that this was not a case of fortitude or of resignation only .  Peculiarly lucky ! -- for as to any real knowledge of a person 's disposition that Bath , or any public place , can give -- it is all nothing ; there can be no knowledge .  Believe me , '' and Elinor spoke it with the truest sincerity , `` nothing could be farther from my intention than to give you such an idea .  No wonder !  No second attachment , the only thoroughly natural , happy , and sufficient cure , at her time of life , had been possible to the nice tone of her mind , the fastidiousness of her taste , in the small limits of the society around them .  But there was another , and an earlier , which I will now explain .  So he rolled over .  `` Yes , certainly it does .  She held the parcel towards her , and Emma read the words _Most_ _precious_ _treasures_ on the top .  She is not satisfied .  He felt humiliated .  She was your governess , I think ? ''  You are extremely troublesome .  Perhaps it will be wisest in you to check your feelings while you can : at any rate do not let them carry you far , unless you are persuaded of his liking you .  Her mother 's affliction was hardly less , and Elinor was the only one of the three , who seemed to consider the separation as any thing short of eternal .  Once , too , he spoke to her .  By this time , the walk in the rain had reached Mrs. Elton , and her remonstrances now opened upon Jane .  This lesson , she very much feared , they would receive only from herself ; she had little hope of Mr. Knightley , none of Mr. Weston .  The weather added what it could of gloom .  What was he watching for ?  A little delay on his side might be very excusable .  `` That I will , with all my heart , and farther , too .  Soon the Mouse-deer was called before King Solomon .  But , however , so it is .  `` Indeed , indeed , Father Lion , '' said the little Jackal , `` I know that is what everybody thinks ; but indeed and indeed there is another lion !  She did all that I wanted .  Anne saw them wherever she went .  I should be sorry to be more . ''  Ao ! ''  The next question was --  Till it does come , you know , we women never mean to have anybody .  Before the middle of the day , they were visited by Sir John and Mrs. Jennings , who , having heard of the arrival of a gentleman at the cottage , came to take a survey of the guest .  She had never been admitted before to be seriously ill .  I was snowed up at a friend 's house once for a week .  I shall do something to expose myself . ''  But what is the meaning of this ?  Poor Mr. Elton !  And I have no doubt that he _will_ thrive , and be a very rich man in time -- and his being illiterate and coarse need not disturb _us_ . ''  -- Harriet 's was --  But it does , at first ; it looks so much like these things that in the great nurseries , where trees are raised for forests and parks , the workmen have to be very carefully trained , or else they would pull up the trees when they are weeding .  Had he been in his right senses , he could not have thought of such a thing as begging you to give away half your fortune from your own child . ''  -- with many other relative questions , all answered with patient politeness .  No sooner was his father 's funeral over , than Mrs. John Dashwood , without sending any notice of her intention to her mother-in-law , arrived with her child and their attendants .  But the lion in the water made just as terrible a one , back .  `` Certainly ; you must be sensible that the last half-year has made a great difference in your way of life . ''  She is a woman that one may , that one _must_ laugh at ; but that one would not wish to slight .  His wish of staying longer evidently did not please ; but it was not opposed .  Get out of there ! ''  Then followed the history and rise of the ancient and respectable family , in the usual terms ; how it had been first settled in Cheshire ; how mentioned in Dugdale , serving the office of high sheriff , representing a borough in three successive parliaments , exertions of loyalty , and dignity of baronet , in the first year of Charles II , with all the Marys and Elizabeths they had married ; forming altogether two handsome duodecimo pages , and concluding with the arms and motto : -- '' Principal seat , Kellynch Hall , in the county of Somerset , '' and Sir Walter 's handwriting again in this finale : --  `` You know Miss Fairfax 's situation in life , I conclude ; what she is destined to be ? ''  Do not tell his father , but that young man is not quite the thing .  He is thought to be gouty . ''  Mrs. Jennings laughed again , but Elinor had not spirits to say more , and eager at all events to know what Willoughby had written , hurried away to their room , where , on opening the door , she saw Marianne stretched on the bed , almost choked by grief , one letter in her hand , and two or three others laying by her .  `` Why will not you write one yourself for us , Mr .  I was late ; I met her walking home by herself , and wanted to walk with her , but she would not suffer it .  I would not recommend an egg boiled by any body else ; but you need not be afraid , they are very small , you see -- one of our small eggs will not hurt you .  His father would not own himself uneasy , and laughed at her fears ; but she could not be cured of wishing that he would part with his black mare .  I expect he set it down hard , for all at once , with a little snap , it opened ! -- exactly like a little box .  Miss Woodhouse , how you do forget ! ''  `` I only wish , '' replied her sister , `` there were any thing I COULD do , which might be of comfort to you . ''  Had it been ten , Elinor would have been convinced that at that moment she heard a carriage driving up to the house ; and so strong was the persuasion that she DID , in spite of the ALMOST impossibility of their being already come , that she moved into the adjoining dressing-closet and opened a window shutter , to be satisfied of the truth .  He said he should not stay out long ; but he has never come back , and now it is almost one .  good Mr. Perry -- how is he , sir ? ''  She had never boasted either beauty or cleverness .  `` Ah ! ''  At the same time , nobody could wonder if Mr. Elton should have aspired -- Miss Woodhouse lets me chatter on , so good-humouredly .  This was one of her expressions .  the amiable , obliging , gentle Mr .  cried Mrs. Jennings ; `` very pretty , indeed !  She must have been a perpetual enemy .  He argued like a young man very much bent on dancing ; and Emma was rather surprized to see the constitution of the Weston prevail so decidedly against the habits of the Churchills .  She had half a mind to resent ; but an instant 's observation convinced her that it was really said only to relieve his own feelings , and not meant to provoke ; and therefore she let it pass .  Nothing but a country curate .  There they all sat in a great circle around him , each where he felt safe , but where he could see , and every one of them laughing and making fun of Buster .  Mrs. Jennings repeated her assurance that Mrs. Dashwood could spare them perfectly well ; and Elinor , who now understood her sister , and saw to what indifference to almost every thing else she was carried by her eagerness to be with Willoughby again , made no farther direct opposition to the plan , and merely referred it to her mother 's decision , from whom however she scarcely expected to receive any support in her endeavour to prevent a visit , which she could not approve of for Marianne , and which on her own account she had particular reasons to avoid .  Sir John never came to the Dashwoods without either inviting them to dine at the park the next day , or to drink tea with them that evening .  Chapter 8  Did you ever see their equals ?  Since the death of her husband , who had traded with success in a less elegant part of the town , she had resided every winter in a house in one of the streets near Portman Square .  `Oh !  The tone , the look , with which `` Thank God ! ''  It was Garrick 's , you know . ''  `` Certainly .  My dear Emma , I am longing to talk to you .  I could never tell whether an attachment between you and Mr. Elton were most desirable or most natural .  Her fears , he had no courage , no confidence to attempt the removal of : -- he listened to them in silent despondence ; -- but her difficulties were instantly obviated , for with a readiness that seemed to speak the occasion , and the service pre-arranged in his mind , he offered himself as the messenger who should fetch Mrs. Dashwood .  That bear might have tried to eat me instead of the berries .  Louisa 's limbs had escaped .  And when he was drowned , the little Jackals took hold of hands and danced round the well , and sang , -- `` The Lion is dead !  And then she looks and pats it down , And looks a minute more ; While I stay here all still and cool .  Then he hid near by , where he could watch .  And then I have made a little purchase within this half year ; East Kingham Farm , you must remember the place , where old Gibson used to live .  He is not a gallant man , but he is a very humane one ; and this , considering Jane Fairfax 's ill-health , would appear a case of humanity to him ; -- and for an act of unostentatious kindness , there is nobody whom I would fix on more than on Mr. Knightley .  I hope she is well ? ''  Mr. Knightley and Harriet Smith ! -- It was a union to distance every wonder of the kind. -- The attachment of Frank Churchill and Jane Fairfax became commonplace , threadbare , stale in the comparison , exciting no surprize , presenting no disparity , affording nothing to be said or thought. -- Mr .  Without shutting herself up from her family , or leaving the house in determined solitude to avoid them , or lying awake the whole night to indulge meditation , Elinor found every day afforded her leisure enough to think of Edward , and of Edward 's behaviour , in every possible variety which the different state of her spirits at different times could produce , -- with tenderness , pity , approbation , censure , and doubt .  His dejection was most evident .  So he wandered from one patch of berries to another in the Old Pasture , and never once thought of the time .  Each one said to himself , `` I must have been right , really ; the artist himself sees that something was wrong ; now I shall have credit for saving the prince 's portrait by my artistic taste ! ''  They would have killed the crazy man who insulted their king ; but he raised his hand and stopped them , and with his eyes looking into Robert 's eyes he said , `` Not the king ; you shall be the king 's jester !  Has she run away because we are come ?  And the same may be said of Mrs. Jeffereys -- Clara Partridge , that was -- and of the two Milmans , now Mrs. Bird and Mrs. James Cooper ; and of more than I can enumerate .  It was impossible for her to have forgotten to feel that this arrival of their common friends must be soon bringing them together again .  She is not the superior young woman which Emma 's friend ought to be .  `` Oh !  `` Nobody ! ''  `Not that it was such a very old petticoat either -- for still it would last a great while -- and , indeed , she must thankfully say that their petticoats were all very strong . ' ''  In short , I can feel no dependence on his coming , and I wish Mr. Weston were less sanguine . ''  the blessing of a female correspondent , when one is really interested in the absent ! -- she will tell me every thing .  `` Now for the seed , '' said father .  Captain Wentworth recollected him perfectly .  I remember it perfectly .  Do n't scruple .  `` There is no charm equal to tenderness of heart , '' said she afterwards to herself .  asked Grandfather Frog .  Emma felt that Mrs. Weston was giving her a momentary glance ; and she was herself struck by his warmth .  Ireland is like that .  There was a great deal of friendly and of compassionate attachment on his side -- but no love .  Our part of London is very superior to most others ! -- You must not confound us with London in general , my dear sir .  `` Hush ! ''  `` Yes .  Captain Harville was a tall , dark man , with a sensible , benevolent countenance ; a little lame ; and from strong features and want of health , looking much older than Captain Wentworth .  `You and I must part .  `` Well , '' said he , in a deliberating manner , `` for five minutes , perhaps . ''  But Marianne abhorred all concealment where no real disgrace could attend unreserve ; and to aim at the restraint of sentiments which were not in themselves illaudable , appeared to her not merely an unnecessary effort , but a disgraceful subjection of reason to common-place and mistaken notions .  screamed Mary , catching hold of her husband , and contributing with his own horror to make him immoveable ; and in another moment , Henrietta , sinking under the conviction , lost her senses too , and would have fallen on the steps , but for Captain Benwick and Anne , who caught and supported her between them .  Here they were interrupted by the absolute necessity of Charles 's following the others to admire mirrors and china ; but Anne had heard enough to understand the present state of Uppercross , and rejoice in its happiness ; and though she sighed as she rejoiced , her sigh had none of the ill-will of envy in it .  Poverty certainly has not contracted her mind : I really believe , if she had only a shilling in the world , she would be very likely to give away sixpence of it ; and nobody is afraid of her : that is a great charm . ''  She , however , was soon persuaded to think differently .  But poor Mrs. Bates had a bad cold about a month ago . ''  `` I know that you all love her really too well to be unjust or unkind ; but excuse me , Mr. Knightley , if I take the liberty ( I consider myself , you know , as having somewhat of the privilege of speech that Emma 's mother might have had ) the liberty of hinting that I do not think any possible good can arise from Harriet Smith 's intimacy being made a matter of much discussion among you .  The listeners were amused ; and Mrs. Weston gave Emma a look of particular meaning .  I understand it was a very handsome letter , indeed .  cried he , looking eagerly at her , `` are you , indeed ? ''  The Bullock looked up , and answered in a deep , grumbling voice , -- `` When I was young and strong my master used me hard , and I served him well .  `` You must remember , my dear mother , that I have never considered this matter as certain .  And so then , in my nonsense , I could not help making a treasure of it -- so I put it by never to be used , and looked at it now and then as a great treat . ''  `` Yes , yes , we can guess where he is ; at his own house at Norland to be sure .  `` What makes you think such a thing ? ''  So when he heard Blacky the Crow and Sammy Jay making a great fuss near the edge of the Green Forest , he never once thought of Buster Bear , as he started over to see what was going on .  She would not wound the feelings of her sister on any account , and yet to say what she did not believe was impossible .  So he stood quite still and began to talk to himself , -- it was a little way he had .  You appear to me a little hoarse already , and when you consider what demand of voice and what fatigues to-morrow will bring , I think it would be no more than common prudence to stay at home and take care of yourself to-night . ''  But she soon saw how likely it was that Lucy , in her self-provident care , in her haste to secure him , should overlook every thing but the risk of delay .  Mrs. Dashwood immediately took all that trouble on herself ; and Elinor had the benefit of the information without the exertion of seeking it .  They wanted him to make a fine figure in the world in some manner or other .  In the course of a second visit she talked with great openness , and Anne 's astonishment increased .  You need not be afraid , Miss Elliot , of your own sweet flower gardens being neglected . ''  `` Well , Miss Woodhouse , '' he almost immediately began , `` your inclination for dancing has not been quite frightened away , I hope , by the terrors of my father 's little rooms .  No : the years which had destroyed her youth and bloom had only given him a more glowing , manly , open look , in no respect lessening his personal advantages .  `` That 's true , '' she cried -- '' very true .  This invitation of Mary 's removed all Lady Russell 's difficulties , and it was consequently soon settled that Anne should not go to Bath till Lady Russell took her , and that all the intervening time should be divided between Uppercross Cottage and Kellynch Lodge .  There was a great big stone lying there , and the little Red Hen picked it up and put it in the bag as quick as a wink .  `If you must go , my dear , ' said I , `you must , and I will say you are laid down upon the bed . ' ''  They are excellent neighbours to you in the country , I understand . ''  The weather was remarkably fine , and she readily consented .  Jane had not been gone a quarter of an hour , and they had only accomplished some views of St. Mark 's Place , Venice , when Frank Churchill entered the room .  he asked .  Mr. Woodhouse told me of it .  He hesitated , got up , walked to a window .  Could not have imagined it. -- So well lighted up ! -- Jane , Jane , look ! -- did you ever see any thing ?  `` And Mrs. Perry and the children , how are they ?  As to her illness , all nothing of course .  `` I rather doubt that .  but dear Miss Woodhouse , she is now in such retirement , such obscurity , so thrown away. -- Whatever advantages she may have enjoyed with the Campbells are so palpably at an end !  The first act was over .  `` The Laconia had come into Plymouth the week before ; no danger of her being sent to sea again .  This , to Anne , was a decided imperfection .  In a great rage , Prince Cherry ordered the young girl to be put in prison ; and the key of her dungeon he kept .  At last they came to the wood where the Nightingale was .  Nobody else would come so early . '  Mrs. Weston was exceedingly disappointed -- much more disappointed , in fact , than her husband , though her dependence on seeing the young man had been so much more sober : but a sanguine temper , though for ever expecting more good than occurs , does not always pay for its hopes by any proportionate depression .  `` Certainly , '' replied he , surprized , `` I do not absolutely know it ; but it may be inferred .  All manner of solemn nonsense was talked on the subject , but I believed none of it .  For the present , he could not be spared , to his `` very great mortification and regret ; but still he looked forward with the hope of coming to Randalls at no distant period . ''  Now what was it ? ''  Willoughby opened the piano-forte , and asked Marianne to sit down to it ; and thus amidst the various endeavours of different people to quit the topic , it fell to the ground .  Most grateful did Elinor feel to Lady Middleton for observing , at this moment , `` that it rained very hard , '' though she believed the interruption to proceed less from any attention to her , than from her ladyship 's great dislike of all such inelegant subjects of raillery as delighted her husband and mother .  He was looking about , he was going to the door , he was watching for the sound of other carriages , -- impatient to begin , or afraid of being always near her .  those things are too common .  `` Indeed !  `` Shall I tell you . ''  He defended himself ; though professing that he would never willingly admit any ladies on board a ship of his , excepting for a ball , or a visit , which a few hours might comprehend .  said Margery .  `` Not I , '' said the Goose .  `` I can not agree with you .  Yea , though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death , I will fear no evil : for thou art with me ; thy rod and thy staff they comfort me .  In the first place , I had a note from Mrs Croft yesterday , offering to convey anything to you ; a very kind , friendly note indeed , addressed to me , just as it ought ; I shall therefore be able to make my letter as long as I like .  The sitting began ; and Harriet , smiling and blushing , and afraid of not keeping her attitude and countenance , presented a very sweet mixture of youthful expression to the steady eyes of the artist .  `` Did she know ? -- had she heard any thing about her , since their being at Randalls ? -- he felt much anxiety -- he must confess that the nature of her complaint alarmed him considerably . ''  `` Have you indeed no idea ? ''  When she remembered this she held herself from sinking , and swayed here and there on the breeze , thinking , -- thinking .  Will not the old prejudice be too strong ? ''  Pouf !  They ought to feel what is due to you as my sister .  `` Yes -- could that be wrong after all that had passed ? -- But I can not talk . ''  `` Add to which , '' cried Marianne , `` that he has neither genius , taste , nor spirit .  The answer soon presented itself .  She would see if it rained .  Buster was late that morning .  I always make a point of reading Jane 's letters through to myself first , before I read them aloud to my mother , you know , for fear of there being any thing in them to distress her .  Now was the time for Mr. Frank Churchill to come among them ; and the hope strengthened when it was understood that he had written to his new mother on the occasion .  Once Lucy thought to write to him , but then her spirits rose against that .  Then he jumped on the helpless pail .  They were very poor , but they had the happiest times you ever heard of , because they were very rich in everything except money .  Mr. Knightley , one moment more ; something of consequence -- so shocked ! -- Jane and I are both so shocked about the apples ! ''  You will get very tired when tea is over . ''  For a long , long time the Nightingale sang every evening to the Emperor and his court , and they liked her so much that the ladies all tried to sing like her ; they used to put water in their mouths and then make little sounds like this : _glu-glu-glug_ .  He had a pleasing face and a melancholy air , just as he ought to have , and drew back from conversation .  It was engrossed by the extraordinary silence of her sister and Willoughby on the subject , which they must know to be peculiarly interesting to them all .  `` Miss Fairfax 's compliments and thanks , but is quite unequal to any exercise . ''  `` And what are we to do for a proper partner for her ? ''  What right had he to come among us with affection and faith engaged , and with manners so _very_ disengaged ?  This suspicion was given by some words which accidently dropped from him one evening at the park , when they were sitting down together by mutual consent , while the others were dancing .  There were the pencilled marks and memorandums on the wainscot by the window .  He opened his eyes , and there was Death , sitting on his heart .  `` What an excellent device , '' said he , `` the use of a sheepskin for carriages .  She wished very much to have the subject continued , though she did not chuse to join in it herself ; but nothing more of it was said , and for the first time in her life , she thought Mrs. Jennings deficient either in curiosity after petty information , or in a disposition to communicate it .  and the two new beauties , with the tall Irish officer , who is talked of for one of them . ''  `` It is well the words are in Latin , then , '' said the king angrily , `` for they are a lie .  so considerate ! -- But however , she is so far from well , that her kind friends the Campbells think she had better come home , and try an air that always agrees with her ; and they have no doubt that three or four months at Highbury will entirely cure her -- and it is certainly a great deal better that she should come here , than go to Ireland , if she is unwell .  Mrs. and Miss Bates occupied the drawing-room floor ; and there , in the very moderate-sized apartment , which was every thing to them , the visitors were most cordially and even gratefully welcomed ; the quiet neat old lady , who with her knitting was seated in the warmest corner , wanting even to give up her place to Miss Woodhouse , and her more active , talking daughter , almost ready to overpower them with care and kindness , thanks for their visit , solicitude for their shoes , anxious inquiries after Mr. Woodhouse 's health , cheerful communications about her mother 's , and sweet-cake from the beaufet -- '' Mrs. Cole had just been there , just called in for ten minutes , and had been so good as to sit an hour with them , and _she_ had taken a piece of cake and been so kind as to say she liked it very much ; and , therefore , she hoped Miss Woodhouse and Miss Smith would do them the favour to eat a piece too . ''  Shall I ? -- Yes , I will -- I declare I will -- and you shall see how she takes it ; -- whether she colours . ''  I hope he will not mind it so very much . ''  Henrietta remained with Louisa ; but all the rest of the family were again in their usual quarters .  He bowed .  he snarled .  `` It 's the Rain , and I want to come in , '' said a soft , sad , little voice .  Mr. John Knightley must be in town again on the 28th , and we ought to be thankful , papa , that we are to have the whole of the time they can give to the country , that two or three days are not to be taken out for the Abbey .  `` My dear Harriet , I perfectly remember the substance of what I said on the occasion .  Fortune I do not want ; employment I do not want ; consequence I do not want : I believe few married women are half as much mistress of their husband 's house as I am of Hartfield ; and never , never could I expect to be so truly beloved and important ; so always first and always right in any man 's eyes as I am in my father 's . ''  Then she kissed her little son and left him there .  What can you suppose ? ''  Tiger , tiger , burning bright In the forests of the night , What immortal hand or eye Dare frame thy fearful symmetry ?  at the top of his lungs , and behind him Blacky the Crow , trying to catch up and yelling as loud as he could , `` Caw , caw , caw !  Without his sanction I could not hope to be listened to again. -- I spoke ; circumstances were in my favour ; the late event had softened away his pride , and he was , earlier than I could have anticipated , wholly reconciled and complying ; and could say at last , poor man !  said the prince .  At that the Lion stood up and roared so that the jungle shook .  I could not have stood it .  His attendance was by this means secured , and the rest followed in course .  I observed him narrowly , and am convinced of it .  I wish we had been aware in time , who it was , that he might have been introduced to us .  The Coxes were wondering last night whether she would get into any great family .  The old Alligator was hidden away beneath the mud and bulrush leaves , and he could n't see anything .  And if he were to be lost to them for Harriet 's sake ; if he were to be thought of hereafter , as finding in Harriet 's society all that he wanted ; if Harriet were to be the chosen , the first , the dearest , the friend , the wife to whom he looked for all the best blessings of existence ; what could be increasing Emma 's wretchedness but the reflection never far distant from her mind , that it had been all her own work ?  `` A dance ! ''  She complained of it as they returned to Berkeley Street .  Fairfax of the _______ regiment of infantry , and Miss Jane Bates , had had its day of fame and pleasure , hope and interest ; but nothing now remained of it , save the melancholy remembrance of him dying in action abroad -- of his widow sinking under consumption and grief soon afterwards -- and this girl .  He was beginning to be lonely .  Woman 's usual occupations of hand and mind will be as open to me then as they are now ; or with no important variation .  It ought to be no recommendation to _you_ .  I am not fond of the idea of my shrubberies being always approachable ; and I should recommend Miss Elliot to be on her guard with respect to her flower garden .  But the question is not , whether it would be a bad connexion for him , but whether he wishes it ; and I think he does .  CHAPTER XV  There , it is done .  For such particulars , stated on such authority , Elinor could not withhold her credit ; nor was she disposed to it , for the circumstance was in perfect unison with what she had heard and seen herself .  Jealousy of Mr Elliot !  `` How funny ! ''  When they were all deep in slumber , the Dagda took his magic harp , and he and his golden-haired warriors stole softly away , and came in safety to their own homes again .  Help '' -- and it was very faint and sounded terribly frightened .  said I -- I can not think who you mean .  But if he marries a very ignorant , vulgar woman , certainly I had better not visit her , if I can help it . ''  `` Time to be off , '' said the lazy man , and looked about him for the pretty horse .  He looked rather doubtingly -- rather confused ; said something about `` honour , '' -- glanced at Emma and at Harriet , and then seeing the book open on the table , took it up , and examined it very attentively .  The Diamond burst into a rude , contemptuous laugh .  Elinor heard all this with attention and surprise .  `` I thought you meant to go with me .  `` They sang and swung The swift mill stone , And with loud voice They made their moan .  She had a splendid brain in her little head ; it liked study , and it thought interesting thoughts all day long .  Sir Walter , on being applied to , without actually withholding his consent , or saying it should never be , gave it all the negative of great astonishment , great coldness , great silence , and a professed resolution of doing nothing for his daughter .  Anne knew not how to understand it .  Once more the artist summoned the prince and his courtiers , and once more the statue was unveiled .  `` Yes ; once , while she was staying in this house , I happened to drop in for ten minutes ; and I saw quite enough of her .  There were more completely popular .  Buster couldn't have stolen up and taken it , because such a big fellow could n't possibly have gotten out of sight again .  Bobby Coon , looking through a hole in a hollow stump in which he was hiding , held _his_ breath .  But then , it had been taken up by his father and mother .  one can think of nothing else . ''  Very early in April , and tolerably early in the day , the two parties from Hanover Square and Berkeley Street set out from their respective homes , to meet , by appointment , on the road .  Now was the time when her son-in-law 's promise to his father might with particular propriety be fulfilled .  The lazy man shouted , and beat him , but the beast went slowly backward .  A lady , without a family , was the very best preserver of furniture in the world .  This is what he did .  `` Pray say no more .  Harriet kissed her hand in silent and submissive gratitude .  `` Ah ! -- so you say ; but I can not believe it . ''  But most , through midnight streets I hear How the youthful harlot 's curse Blasts the new-born infant 's tear , And blights with plagues the marriage-hearse .  My only scruple in advising the match was on his account , as being beneath his deserts , and a bad connexion for him .  The maidens walked along by the river side .  `` Too bad .  Look up to it , and be tranquil if you can .  But who would n't be in a rage if his breakfast was taken from him just as he was about to eat it ?  But though this behaviour assured Elinor that the conviction of this guilt WAS carried home to her mind , though she saw with satisfaction the effect of it , in her no longer avoiding Colonel Brandon when he called , in her speaking to him , even voluntarily speaking , with a kind of compassionate respect , and though she saw her spirits less violently irritated than before , she did not see her less wretched .  The fish were so frightened that they wouldn't come back for a long , long time .  `` Perhaps I ought to have reasoned thus , '' he replied , `` but I could not .  The public pays and must be served well . ''  CHAPTER 39  No other visitor appeared that evening , and the ladies were unanimous in agreeing to go early to bed .  The clock struck twice .  `` Aye , that 's very just , indeed , that 's very properly said .  She made her plan ; she would speak of something totally different -- the children in Brunswick Square ; and she only waited for breath to begin , when Mr. Knightley startled her , by saying ,  Then he went off laughing fit to kill himself .  Altogether it was the most surprising thing that the little people of the Green Forest ever had seen .  It is my party .  I never could have been happy with him , after knowing , as sooner or later I must have known , all this. -- I should have had no confidence , no esteem .  This violent oppression of spirits continued the whole evening .  `` I might not like them the better for that perhaps .  This is three times as large. -- And you have never any odd humours , my dear . ''  I shall think you a great blockhead , Frank , if you bring the aunt without the niece . ''  The chair was earnestly protested against , and Mrs Musgrove , who thought only of one sort of illness , having assured herself with some anxiety , that there had been no fall in the case ; that Anne had not at any time lately slipped down , and got a blow on her head ; that she was perfectly convinced of having had no fall ; could part with her cheerfully , and depend on finding her better at night .  It appears to me a most perfect resemblance in every feature .  A prize indeed would Kellynch Hall be to him ; rather the greatest prize of all , let him have taken ever so many before ; hey , Shepherd ? ''  Is she said to be amiable ? ''  Mr. Elton is good-humoured , cheerful , obliging , and gentle .  Mr. Elton , in very good spirits , was one of the first to walk in .  `` Most favourably for his nephew -- gave his consent with scarcely a difficulty .  He kept eating and eating and eating , and the more he ate the more he wanted .  we shall sit and gape at one another as dull as two cats . ''  Often , after David had made a song , his chief musician would sing with him , as the people gathered to worship God .  `` Yes , a great while ; ever since my sister married. -- He was a particular friend of Sir John 's .  `` The carriage !  and so late !  He looked this way and he looked that way suspiciously , but there was no one to be seen .  `` No , no ; your room is full enough .  Willoughby could not hear of her marriage without a pang ; and his punishment was soon afterwards complete in the voluntary forgiveness of Mrs. Smith , who , by stating his marriage with a woman of character , as the source of her clemency , gave him reason for believing that had he behaved with honour towards Marianne , he might at once have been happy and rich .  Nothing could have done it away to my feelings . ''  Then he has a chance to use that harsh voice of his , and how he does use it !  With regard to herself , it was now a matter of unconcern whether she went to town or not , and when she saw her mother so thoroughly pleased with the plan , and her sister exhilarated by it in look , voice , and manner , restored to all her usual animation , and elevated to more than her usual gaiety , she could not be dissatisfied with the cause , and would hardly allow herself to distrust the consequence .  oho ! ''  Grandfather Frog knew it and shook his head very soberly when Little Joe had been disrespectful to him .  He remained at Hartfield after all the rest , his thoughts full of what he had seen ; so full , that when the candles came to assist his observations , he must -- yes , he certainly must , as a friend -- an anxious friend -- give Emma some hint , ask her some question .  `` It is hardly worth while , Mr. Willoughby , for you to relate , or for me to listen any longer .  In the meanwhile , she resolved against seeing Harriet. -- It would do neither of them good , it would do the subject no good , to be talking of it farther. -- She was resolved not to be convinced , as long as she could doubt , and yet had no authority for opposing Harriet 's confidence .  Said the Palm , `` I will choose my biggest leaf and place it as a fan beside the manger to waft soft air to the Child . ''  Lucy here looked up ; but Elinor was careful in guarding her countenance from every expression that could give her words a suspicious tendency .  Little Lamb , who made thee ?  regular features , open countenance , with a complexion !  `` Take it , '' said Emma , smiling , and pushing the paper towards Harriet -- '' it is for you .  She thought it could scarcely escape him to feel that a persuadable temper might sometimes be as much in favour of happiness as a very resolute character .  Father , when her eyes met mine something pierced my heart !  I could not help being provoked ; for after all my pains , and when I had really made a very good likeness of it -- ( Mrs. Weston and I were quite agreed in thinking it _very_ like ) -- only too handsome -- too flattering -- but that was a fault on the right side -- after all this , came poor dear Isabella 's cold approbation of -- '' Yes , it was a little like -- but to be sure it did not do him justice . ''  Sir Walter could not have borne the degradation of being known to design letting his house .  `` How can that be done ?  I see it in your eye .  You are making a most disgraceful connection , and such a one as your family are unanimous in disapproving . '  But she had made up her mind how to meet this presumption so many weeks before it appeared , that when the insult came at last , it found her very differently affected .  Emma would not have smiled for the world , and only said , `` Is Mr. Elton gone on foot to Donwell ? -- He will have a hot walk . ''  You will laugh at my warmth -- but , upon my word , I talk of nothing but Jane Fairfax. -- And her situation is so calculated to affect one ! -- Miss Woodhouse , we must exert ourselves and endeavour to do something for her .  They were both silent for a few moments .  He would soon be among them again ; Mr. Elton and his bride .  `` Are you well , my Emma ? ''  `` You may _say_ what you chuse -- but your countenance testifies that your _thoughts_ on this subject are very much like mine . ''  He perfectly agreed with her : and after walking together so long , and thinking so much alike , Emma felt herself so well acquainted with him , that she could hardly believe it to be only their second meeting .  Mrs. Elton was first seen at church : but though devotion might be interrupted , curiosity could not be satisfied by a bride in a pew , and it must be left for the visits in form which were then to be paid , to settle whether she were very pretty indeed , or only rather pretty , or not pretty at all .  `` You will not find her there .  `` What a precious deposit ! ''  `` Because , your Majesty , '' said the King-crab , `` I saw that the Crayfish had shouldered his lance . ''  Little Joe Otter had his way too much .  It would be a great disappointment to Mr. John Knightley ; consequently to Isabella .  Both master and man being in mourning assisted the idea .  All creation slept and smiled .  Yet such was the case .  `` In town ! ''  He praised her for being without art or affectation , for having simple , honest , generous , feelings. -- She knew that he saw such recommendations in Harriet ; he had dwelt on them to her more than once. -- Much that lived in Harriet 's memory , many little particulars of the notice she had received from him , a look , a speech , a removal from one chair to another , a compliment implied , a preference inferred , had been unnoticed , because unsuspected , by Emma .  He can sit down and write a fine flourishing letter , full of professions and falsehoods , and persuade himself that he has hit upon the very best method in the world of preserving peace at home and preventing his father 's having any right to complain .  How to understand the deceptions she had been thus practising on herself , and living under ! -- The blunders , the blindness of her own head and heart ! -- she sat still , she walked about , she tried her own room , she tried the shrubbery -- in every place , every posture , she perceived that she had acted most weakly ; that she had been imposed on by others in a most mortifying degree ; that she had been imposing on herself in a degree yet more mortifying ; that she was wretched , and should probably find this day but the beginning of wretchedness .  Emma knew what was coming ; they must have the letter over again , and settle how long he had been gone , and how much he was engaged in company , and what a favourite he was wherever he went , and how full the Master of the Ceremonies ' ball had been ; and she went through it very well , with all the interest and all the commendation that could be requisite , and always putting forward to prevent Harriet 's being obliged to say a word .  And the Dagda took his harp and swept his hand across the strings in three great , solemn chords .  But on seeing them together , she became perfectly satisfied .  Captain Wentworth made a very early return to Mr Musgrove 's civility , and she was all but calling there in the same half hour .  Not aware of their being in town , however , I blundered on Sir John , I believe , the first day of his coming , and the day after I had called at Mrs. Jennings 's .  cried the good-hearted Mrs. John Knightley .  `` Chug-a-rum !  You may guess , after all these expenses , how very far we must be from being rich , and how acceptable Mrs. Ferrars 's kindness is . ''  She had not even a share in his opening compliments. -- Her name was not mentioned ; -- and there was so striking a change in all this , and such an ill-judged solemnity of leave-taking in his graceful acknowledgments , as she thought , at first , could not escape her father 's suspicion .  `` I rather wonder that it was never made before . ''  My first displays the wealth and pomp of kings , Lords of the earth !  Arise from out the dewy grass !  `` So far as that it relates to Mr. Frank Churchill , I do guess . ''  Jennings , with a very intelligent `` Ah !  `` Indeed you are mistaken there , sir ; I should never augur want of spirit from Captain Benwick 's manners .  Mrs. Weston had , of course , formed a very favourable idea of the young man ; and such a pleasing attention was an irresistible proof of his great good sense , and a most welcome addition to every source and every expression of congratulation which her marriage had already secured .  You will allow me to bring Jane Fairfax ? ''  Yes , good man ! -- thought Emma -- but what has all that to do with taking likenesses ?  Such opposition , as these feelings produced , was more than Anne could combat .  I am so thirsty , and there is no water here . ''  Mr. Woodhouse came in , and very soon led to the subject again , by the recurrence of his very frequent inquiry of `` Well , my dears , how does your book go on ? -- Have you got any thing fresh ? ''  As it was , I was only betrayed into paying a most unreasonable visit .  Indeed I must say that , much as I had heard of him before and much as I had expected , he very far exceeds any thing .  `` You were a good while at Lyme , I think ? ''  She saw her mother and Marianne change colour ; saw them look at herself , and whisper a few sentences to each other .  `` Here , Frederick , you and I part company , I believe , '' said she .  Why was this glory for him ?  How does Charlotte do ?  Referring the education to her seemed to imply it .  Besides , he did n't remember ever having known Billy to leave heads around that way .  A hasty and imprudent attachment may arise -- but there is generally time to recover from it afterwards .  The servants , I suppose , forgot to tell you that Mr. Palmer was not in the house . ''  The head had received a severe contusion , but he had seen greater injuries recovered from : he was by no means hopeless ; he spoke cheerfully .  Ah !  They laugh at our play , And soon they all say , `` Such , such were the joys When we all -- girls and boys -- In our youth-time were seen On the echoing Green . ''  We must go in the carriage , to be sure . ''  They will have ten thousand pounds divided amongst them .  And the maidens did so , and worked to such effect that within a short time the millstones had ground out so much salt that the weight of it began to sink the ship .  `` Well , he is coming , you see ; good news , I think .  If your sentiments are no longer what they were , you will return my notes , and the lock of my hair which is in your possession .  `` Trouble !  XIX BUSTER BEAR HAS A FINE TIME Buster Bear was having the finest time he had had since he came down from the Great Woods to live in the Green Forest .  Mr. Woodhouse was soon ready for his tea ; and when he had drank his tea he was quite ready to go home ; and it was as much as his three companions could do , to entertain away his notice of the lateness of the hour , before the other gentlemen appeared .  no .  exclaimed Mary , tauntingly .  The knowledge of what her mother must be feeling as the carriage stopt at the door -- of her doubt -- her dread -- perhaps her despair ! -- and of what SHE had to tell ! -- with such knowledge it was impossible to be calm .  But Chatterer did n't think of that .  She was very fond of singing .  m-m !  In less time than it takes to tell about it , Buster was alone .  Elinor could not suppose that Sir John would be more nice in proclaiming his suspicions of her regard for Edward , than he had been with respect to Marianne ; indeed it was rather his favourite joke of the two , as being somewhat newer and more conjectural ; and since Edward 's visit , they had never dined together without his drinking to her best affections with so much significancy and so many nods and winks , as to excite general attention .  but such old friends as Lucy and me ! -- I think she might see US ; and I am sure we would not speak a word . ''  `` It was this way : I was walking along , and I saw the Tiger -- -- '' `` Oh , dear , dear ! ''  They walked along the road through the valley , and chiefly in silence , for Marianne 's MIND could not be controlled , and Elinor , satisfied with gaining one point , would not then attempt more .  Farmer Brown 's boy gaped foolishly this way and that way .  Do but consider , my dear Mr. Dashwood , how excessively comfortable your mother-in-law and her daughters may live on the interest of seven thousand pounds , besides the thousand pounds belonging to each of the girls , which brings them in fifty pounds a year a-piece , and , of course , they will pay their mother for their board out of it .  I doubt it .  Emma was almost too much astonished to answer ; but Mrs. Elton hardly waited for the affirmative before she went on .  That evening Margery was waiting eagerly for him .  Her first return was to resume her place in the modern and elegant apartments of the Lodge , and to gladden the eyes of its mistress .  Such a letter could not be read without putting Anne in a glow ; and Mrs Smith , observing the high colour in her face , said --  After a short interval , however , he came towards her , and spoke again .  One takes up a notion , and runs away with it .  The attentions of a certain person can hardly be among the tittle-tattle of Highbury yet .  My throat is parched for want of water .  When all the people were there , the Emperor asked the Nightingale to sing .  impossible ! ''  You brought this upon me .  Weston ? -- Judge between us .  Emma watched the entree of her own particular little friend ; and if she could not exult in her dignity and grace , she could not only love the blooming sweetness and the artless manner , but could most heartily rejoice in that light , cheerful , unsentimental disposition which allowed her so many alleviations of pleasure , in the midst of the pangs of disappointed affection .  It would be needless to say , that the gentlemen advanced in the good opinion of each other , as they advanced in each other 's acquaintance , for it could not be otherwise .  At first , if you had not told me that more wonderful things had happened ; that there had been matches of greater disparity ( those were your very words ) ; -- I should not have dared to give way to -- I should not have thought it possible -- But if _you_ , who had been always acquainted with him -- ''  `` Herr Grupello , '' he said , `` you are a great artist , and this statue will make your fame even greater than it is ; the portrait of me is perfect ! ''  I was breakfasting at the Ellisons , -- and her letter , with some others , was brought to me there from my lodgings .  She began not to understand a word they said , and was obliged to plead indisposition and excuse herself .  She felt that something must be the matter .  `` My dear madam !  `` Especially when _one_ of those two is such a fanciful , troublesome creature ! ''  They will be so near their own stable . ''  `` Dear me !  She had a great idea that people who had extensive grounds themselves cared very little for the extensive grounds of any body else ; but it was not worth while to attack an error so double-dyed , and therefore only said in reply ,  That his understanding has no brilliancy , his feelings no ardour , and his voice no expression . ''  However , the very same evening William Larkins came over with a large basket of apples , the same sort of apples , a bushel at least , and I was very much obliged , and went down and spoke to William Larkins and said every thing , as you may suppose .  `` Everybody is always supposing that I am not a good walker ; and yet they would not have been pleased , if we had refused to join them .  how very odd !  Anne had soon been in company with all the four together often enough to have an opinion , though too wise to acknowledge as much at home , where she knew it would have satisfied neither husband nor wife ; for while she considered Louisa to be rather the favourite , she could not but think , as far as she might dare to judge from memory and experience , that Captain Wentworth was not in love with either .  `` Oh !  The fact is , I suppose , that she is tired of Enscombe .  Every possibility of good was before me , and the first of blessings secured , in obtaining her promises of faith and correspondence .  He found too late , in short , that he had entangled himself ; and that precisely as he became fully satisfied of his not caring for Louisa at all , he must regard himself as bound to her , if her sentiments for him were what the Harvilles supposed .  He lay down and clawed at it with his hind feet .  He really felt conscientiously vexed on the occasion ; for the very exertion to which he had limited the performance of his promise to his father was by this arrangement rendered impracticable. -- The furniture was all sent around by water .  `` I have not had the pleasure of visiting in Camden Place so long , '' replied he , `` without knowing something of Miss Anne Elliot ; and I do regard her as one who is too modest for the world in general to be aware of half her accomplishments , and too highly accomplished for modesty to be natural in any other woman . ''  Harriet Smith might think herself not unworthy of being peculiarly , exclusively , passionately loved by Mr. Knightley .  Mrs. Palmer , on the contrary , who was strongly endowed by nature with a turn for being uniformly civil and happy , was hardly seated before her admiration of the parlour and every thing in it burst forth .  `` Can anything be more galling to the spirit of a man , '' continued John , `` than to see his younger brother in possession of an estate which might have been his own ?  Buster Bear watched him and grinned .  Soon Christmas morning dawned , and Gottlieb woke very early .  Few people of common prudence will do THAT ; and whatever she saves , she will be able to dispose of . ''  I declare sometimes I do not know which way to look before them . ''  could the originals of the portraits against the wainscot , could the gentlemen in brown velvet and the ladies in blue satin have seen what was going on , have been conscious of such an overthrow of all order and neatness !  Had the same behaviour continued , Miss Smith might have been led into a misconception of your views ; not being aware , probably , any more than myself , of the very great inequality which you are so sensible of .  By his style , I should imagine it just settled . ''  Upon her speaking her wonder aloud on that part of the subject , before the few who knew her opinion of Mrs. Elton , Mrs. Weston ventured this apology for Jane .  And I suppose he is there yet , unless somebody picked him out again .  and this , without much waiting for an answer ; or in the young ladies ' addition of , `` I hope we shall be in Bath in the winter ; but remember , papa , if we do go , we must be in a good situation : none of your Queen Squares for us ! ''  `` You had better leave me , '' was all the notice that her sister received from her .  Mr. Weston 's own happiness was indisputable .  NOW especially there can not be -- but however , you and Marianne were always great favourites. -- Why would not Marianne come ? ''  On his side were the inquiries , -- '' Was she a horsewoman ? -- Pleasant rides ? -- Pleasant walks ? -- Had they a large neighbourhood ? -- Highbury , perhaps , afforded society enough ? -- There were several very pretty houses in and about it. -- Balls -- had they balls ? -- Was it a musical society ? ''  As for Lucy Steele , she considered her so totally unamiable , so absolutely incapable of attaching a sensible man , that she could not be persuaded at first to believe , and afterwards to pardon , any former affection of Edward for her .  Now she could hear more ; and she trembled in expectation of it .  `` But it is too far , indeed it is , to be walking quite alone .  Elinor , having once delivered her opinion on William 's side , by which she offended Mrs. Ferrars and Fanny still more , did not see the necessity of enforcing it by any farther assertion ; and Marianne , when called on for her 's , offended them all , by declaring that she had no opinion to give , as she had never thought about it .  He had nestled down his head most conveniently .  `` My objection is this ; though I think very well of Mrs. Jennings 's heart , she is not a woman whose society can afford us pleasure , or whose protection will give us consequence . ''  when should I ever have thought of putting by in cotton a piece of court-plaister that Frank Churchill had been pulling about !  He continued at the window ; and after calmly and politely saying , `` I hope the little boy is better , '' was silent .  English verdure , English culture , English comfort , seen under a sun bright , without being oppressive .  To this Elinor had no answer to make , and did not attempt any .  Oh , my , no !  was the cry .  Do not forget your engagement . ''  It used to stand here .  We have never been there above once since the new approach was made ; but still I have no doubt that James will take you very safely .  Should not this be enough for a sailor , who has had no society among women to make him nice ? ''  But still she had inclination enough for shewing people again how delightfully Mr. Frank Churchill and Miss Woodhouse danced -- for doing that in which she need not blush to compare herself with Jane Fairfax -- and even for simple dancing itself , without any of the wicked aids of vanity -- to assist him first in pacing out the room they were in to see what it could be made to hold -- and then in taking the dimensions of the other parlour , in the hope of discovering , in spite of all that Mr. Weston could say of their exactly equal size , that it was a little the largest .  She had died the preceding summer while he was at sea .  Nothing can be farther from pleasure than to be dancing in a crowd -- and a crowd in a little room ! ''  She could not call herself an invalid now , compared with her state on first reaching Bath .  `` Oh yes ! -- that is , no -- I do not know -- but I believe he has read a good deal -- but not what you would think any thing of .  Mr. Weston was to call in the evening , and she must return it by him .  The courtiers , who took care to pass that way , often , were delighted .  `` Where are you going ? ''  A friend of mine and I had such a lovely cruise together off the Western Islands .  You will find , whenever the subject becomes freed from its present restraints , that it did not take her wholly by surprize .  Lady Russell quite bores one with her new publications .  One might guess twenty things without guessing exactly the right ; but I am sure there must be a particular cause for her chusing to come to Highbury instead of going with the Campbells to Ireland .  In one moment such a change !  But some of those little attentions and encouragements which ladies can so easily give will fix him , in spite of himself .  But she was not at all sorry that she had abused the housekeeper the other day. -- Shocking plan , living together .  It seemed to him a very ill-judged measure . ''  Oh , how fallen in their destination !  `` I wish we had a donkey .  He was afraid of catching cold I dare say , and invented this trick for getting out of it .  Mr Elliot was too generally agreeable .  But the hermit was too eager to wait .  He was steady , observant , moderate , candid ; never run away with by spirits or by selfishness , which fancied itself strong feeling ; and yet , with a sensibility to what was amiable and lovely , and a value for all the felicities of domestic life , which characters of fancied enthusiasm and violent agitation seldom really possess .  As soon as they left the dining-room , Elinor enquired of her about it ; and great was her surprise when she found that every circumstance related by Mrs. Jennings was perfectly true .  `` It is a garden where you have all the things that make nice salad , '' said her mother , laughing , for Margery was fond of salads ; `` you have lettuce , and endive , and mustard and cress , and parsley , and radishes , and beetroot , and young onions . ''  He quitted the militia and engaged in trade , having brothers already established in a good way in London , which afforded him a favourable opening .  There was some anxiety mixed with Lady Russell 's joy in meeting her .  All these lovely flowers used to grow in our grandmothers ' gardens , and if you do n't know what they look like , I hope you can find out next summer .  cried Marianne , `` he has been here while we were out . ''  Come , sir , pray let me hear it . ''  Henrietta fully thought so herself , before Captain Wentworth came ; but from that time Cousin Charles had been very much forgotten .  You see , the bushes grow very thick there , and you can not see very far in any direction .  Sometimes he wo n't speak to me for half a day together , and then he comes out with something so droll -- all about any thing in the world . ''  As soon as Elinor had finished it , she performed what she concluded to be its writer 's real design , by placing it in the hands of Mrs. Jennings , who read it aloud with many comments of satisfaction and praise .  But he always said , -- `` Oh , no ; you are too little , you are too little ! ''  The golden-haired people had a great chieftain who was also a kind of high priest , who was called the Dagda .  `` But the imprudence of such a match ! ''  And I must say , I think she was used very hardly ; for your sister scolded like any fury , and soon drove her into a fainting fit .  do they cry , Do they hear their father sigh ?  I am sorry Mr. and Mrs. Cole should have done it .  `` Very little , '' they said , sadly , for they were too poor to give much .  `` What !  `` Yes ; if you and Mr. Woodhouse see no objection , and I trust you can not , my father hopes his friends will be so kind as to visit him there .  You have made a hero of Buster Bear , because you believe Little Joe 's story .  Finally , he wanted something that he really could not have .  Perhaps she might have passed over more had his manners been flattering to Isabella 's sister , but they were only those of a calmly kind brother and friend , without praise and without blindness ; but hardly any degree of personal compliment could have made her regardless of that greatest fault of all in her eyes which he sometimes fell into , the want of respectful forbearance towards her father .  I really think Charles might as well have told his father we would all come .  Emma 's politeness was at hand directly , to say , with smiling interest --  It may bring many extenuations .  `` It would not be a great match for Henrietta , but Charles has a very fair chance , through the Spicers , of getting something from the Bishop in the course of a year or two ; and you will please to remember , that he is the eldest son ; whenever my uncle dies , he steps into very pretty property .  asked the hermit , painfully .  Everybody has a way of their own .  `` Oh , I beg your pardon , Father Tiger , '' said the little Jackal , `` I really am _so_ stupid ; I can not _quite_ understand what happened .  YOU are my cousins , and they are my wife 's , so you must be related . ''  If I had such a memory as Benwick , I could bring you fifty quotations in a moment on my side the argument , and I do not think I ever opened a book in my life which had not something to say upon woman 's inconstancy .  The event proved her conjecture right , though it was founded on injustice and error ; for Colonel Brandon DID come in ; and Elinor , who was convinced that solicitude for Marianne brought him thither , and who saw THAT solicitude in his disturbed and melancholy look , and in his anxious though brief inquiry after her , could not forgive her sister for esteeming him so lightly .  Fortunately for her , they had now reached the cottage , and the conversation could be continued no farther .  cried Little Joe Otter , dancing about with excitement .  `` What can I give to the Child ? ''  'Lord ! '  In London , perhaps , in your present quiet style of living , it might be as you say : but in Bath ; Sir Walter Elliot and his family will always be worth knowing : always acceptable as acquaintance . ''  A letter arrived from Mr. Churchill to urge his nephew 's instant return .  Ha , ha , ha ! ''  Happily it was not necessary to speak .  Emma was sadly fearful that this second disappointment would be more severe than the first .  What !  Then they followed Where the vision led , And saw their sleeping child Among tigers wild .  `` That has been a good deal the case , my dear ; but not to the degree you mention .  Ten minutes were enough to certify that .  `` Think of me to-morrow , my dear Emma , about four o'clock , '' was Mrs. Weston 's parting injunction ; spoken with some anxiety , and meant only for her .  `` Here , '' resumed Harriet , turning to her box again , `` here is something still more valuable , I mean that _has_ _been_ more valuable , because this is what did really once belong to him , which the court-plaister never did . ''  No , it was not to be supposed that Lady Russell would perceive him till they were nearly opposite .  `` Who is that gentleman on horseback ? ''  She was just as determined when the morrow came , and went early , that nothing might prevent her .  But to have Sammy Jay call everybody within hearing to come and see him was more than he could stand .  There , on the lowest shelf , behind some stone jars , stood a big paper bag of brown sugar .  It was a dislike so little just -- every imputed fault was so magnified by fancy , that she never saw Jane Fairfax the first time after any considerable absence , without feeling that she had injured her ; and now , when the due visit was paid , on her arrival , after a two years ' interval , she was particularly struck with the very appearance and manners , which for those two whole years she had been depreciating .  Perhaps indifferent , if indifference could exist under such circumstances .  Your own judgment must direct you . ''  `` Oh !  Mrs Smith gave her a penetrating glance , and then , smiling , said --  I have valued myself on honourable toils and just rewards .  Blacky did n't know what to make of it .  Charles laughed .  It was lucky , however , for Mrs. Jennings 's curiosity and Elinor 's too , that she would tell any thing WITHOUT being asked ; for nothing would otherwise have been learnt .  On being informed of the invitation , Mrs. Dashwood , persuaded that such an excursion would be productive of much amusement to both her daughters , and perceiving through all her affectionate attention to herself , how much the heart of Marianne was in it , would not hear of their declining the offer upon HER account ; insisted on their both accepting it directly ; and then began to foresee , with her usual cheerfulness , a variety of advantages that would accrue to them all , from this separation .  ( giggling as she spoke ) I 'd lay my life I know what my cousins will say , when they hear of it .  You are too bountiful !  He is as well acquainted with his own claims , as you can be with Harriet 's .  Is she angry ? ''  Morning visits are never fair by women at her time of life , who make themselves up so little .  The fairies sprang to Elsa 's knee , then to the palms of her hands , and then -- whisk !  `` If you please , my dear .  `` No -- to Combe Magna .  She paused over it , while Harriet stood anxiously watching for her opinion , with a `` Well , well , '' and was at last forced to add , `` Is it a good letter ?  Elton , before she could be spoken to , was ready ; and before Mr. Woodhouse had reached her with his request to be allowed to hand her into the dining-parlour , was saying --  The advantage of the match I felt to be all on her side ; and had not the smallest doubt ( nor have I now ) that there would be a general cry-out upon her extreme good luck .  `` How d 'ye do ? -- how d 'ye do ? -- We have been sitting with your father -- glad to see him so well .  Emma could say no more .  But he took it because he could n't help it .  `` I 'm for seeing the King , '' he said ; `` this life is too quiet for me . ''  Though uncertain that any one were to blame , she found fault with every absent friend .  Marianne was vexed at it for her sister 's sake , and turned her eyes towards Elinor to see how she bore these attacks , with an earnestness which gave Elinor far more pain than could arise from such common-place raillery as Mrs. Jennings 's .  He had more than the ordinary triumph of accepted love to swell his heart , and raise his spirits .  He must love somebody .  Any habit becomes bad , if it is carried too far .  _She_ was not present when the suspicion first arose .  It was a done thing ; Mr. Elton was to go , and never had his broad handsome face expressed more pleasure than at this moment ; never had his smile been stronger , nor his eyes more exulting than when he next looked at her .  Captain Benwick is very well , I believe , but he is a very odd young man .  `` Not till the reserve ceases towards oneself ; and then the attraction may be the greater .  [ To Mrs .  If Brer Bear is n't scared , he must have remembered something impo'tant and has gone to attend to it in a powerful hurry . ''  It seemed to Buster that he had had all that he could stand that day and a little more .  Another hour or two 's snow can hardly make the road impassable ; and we are two carriages ; if one is blown over in the bleak part of the common field there will be the other at hand .  Elinor then ventured to doubt the propriety of her receiving such a present from a man so little , or at least so lately known to her .  The old well-established grievance of duty against will , parent against child , was the cause of all .  `` If you would change the right hind-foot , Herr Grupello , '' said a third , `` it would be an improvement . ''  `` How strange ! ''  You have proved your heart less wicked , much less wicked .  `` Papa , '' said Margery , `` the little leaves all look exactly alike !  `` Nonsense !  While Lady Elliot lived , there had been method , moderation , and economy , which had just kept him within his income ; but with her had died all such right-mindedness , and from that period he had been constantly exceeding it .  he asked .  `` Oh !  She was seated in her mother 's lap , covered with kisses , her wound bathed with lavender-water , by one of the Miss Steeles , who was on her knees to attend her , and her mouth stuffed with sugar plums by the other .  `` No , to be sure you could not ; but I never thought of that before .  The move began ; and Miss Bates might be heard from that moment , without interruption , till her being seated at table and taking up her spoon .  Sir John was loud in his admiration at the end of every song , and as loud in his conversation with the others while every song lasted .  So your chimneys I sweep , and in soot I sleep .  `` Yes , as long as I could bear their noise ; but they are so unmanageable that they do me more harm than good .  `` Oh !  cried he , catching the same tone ; `` I honour you ! ''  I think him a very handsome young man , and his manners are precisely what I like and approve -- so truly the gentleman , without the least conceit or puppyism .  `` Chug-a-rum ! ''  `` He was a bad king ; we do not want him back , '' said the people .  Go , and interfere .  `` As to that , '' said he , `` I must rub through the world as well as I can .  If she does wrong , she ought to feel it . ''  Are not you astonished ?  cried Mary ; `` it must be our cousin ; it must be our Mr Elliot , it must , indeed !  Gottlieb entered the room just as his mother threw herself at the stranger 's feet to bless him for his generous goodness to the widow and orphan .  One night , when he was all alone in his room , a soft and lovely light suddenly shone before him , and a beautiful vision stood at his side .  It raises my influence much too high ; the power of dividing two people so tenderly attached is too much for an indifferent person . ''  Many vain solicitudes would be prevented -- many awkwardnesses smoothed by it .  It may be only the hair of some great uncle of HIS . ''  Edward was now fixed at the cottage at least for a week ; -- for whatever other claims might be made on him , it was impossible that less than a week should be given up to the enjoyment of Elinor 's company , or suffice to say half that was to be said of the past , the present , and the future ; -- for though a very few hours spent in the hard labor of incessant talking will despatch more subjects than can really be in common between any two rational creatures , yet with lovers it is different .  And though his voice was just like Robert 's own , it had something in it sweet and deep , like the sound of bells .  What he might say on the subject a twelvemonth after , must be referred to the imagination of husbands and wives .  -- was repeated by Marianne and her mother in an accent of the utmost amazement ; -- and though Elinor could not speak , even HER eyes were fixed on him with the same impatient wonder .  `` And do you really believe the affair to have been carrying on with such perfect secresy ? -- The Campbells , the Dixons , did none of them know of the engagement ? ''  So you would all .  But whether he were entirely free from peculiar attachment -- whether there were no actual preference -- remained a little longer doubtful .  Frank Churchill 's confession of having behaved shamefully was the first thing to call for more than a word in passing .  If you reach it before the last stroke of midnight , I will receive you there , and will be your friend .  She had wandered away to a subject on which Elinor had nothing to say , and therefore soon judged it expedient to find her way back again to the first .  It was his business , however , to say that he DID , and he said it very prettily .  They met Mr. Martin the very next day , as they were walking on the Donwell road .  They were all thoughtless or indolent .  `` Aye , aye , that is very pretty talking -- but it wo n't do -- the Doctor is the man , I see . ''  Well , I was persuaded there were two .  `` No , that was what I dreaded .  I have heard him speak with great animation of a large family of young ladies that his sisters are intimate with , who have all twenty thousand pounds apiece . ''  `` I am NOT going to write to my mother , '' replied Marianne , hastily , and as if wishing to avoid any farther inquiry .  pressing his own with emotion .  As Mr Elliot became known to her , she grew more charitable , or more indifferent , towards the others .  Mrs. Dashwood took the house for a twelvemonth ; it was ready furnished , and she might have immediate possession .  And so much was said in this way , that Anne thought she could not do better than impart among them the general inclination to which she was privy , and persuaded them all to go to Lyme at once .  Thirteen winters ' revolving frosts had seen her opening every ball of credit which a scanty neighbourhood afforded , and thirteen springs shewn their blossoms , as she travelled up to London with her father , for a few weeks ' annual enjoyment of the great world .  They were come too late in the year for any amusement or variety which Lyme , as a public place , might offer .  Mrs. Jennings , Lady Middleton 's mother , was a good-humoured , merry , fat , elderly woman , who talked a great deal , seemed very happy , and rather vulgar .  I was a kinder friend than you deserved .  `` I have never yet known what it was to separate esteem and love . ''  Anne was considering whether she should venture to suggest that a gown , or a cap , would not be liable to any such misuse , when a knock at the door suspended everything .  `` I am particularly sorry , ma'am , '' said he , addressing Lady Middleton , `` that I should receive this letter today , for it is on business which requires my immediate attendance in town . ''  John Dashwood was greatly astonished ; but his nature was calm , not open to provocation , and he never wished to offend anybody , especially anybody of good fortune .  They had arrived late the night before .  of what sort ? ''  `` Were you really ? -- Well ! -- But you observed nothing of course , for it seems to be a new idea to you. -- If I had been there , I think I should have made some discoveries . ''  In a moment she perceived that the others were likewise aware of the mistake .  `` You must feel it very fortunate that Miss Fairfax should be allowed to come to you at such a time .  The Emperor 's heart grew colder and colder where Death crouched upon it , and the dreadful whispers grew louder and louder , and the Emperor 's life was almost gone .  They all waited in silence for the appearance of their visitor .  I must learn to brook being happier than I deserve . ''  You alone have brought me to Bath .  `` Your way lies that way , and mine lies this ; good-bye ! ''  His kindness was not confined to words ; for within an hour after he left them , a large basket full of garden stuff and fruit arrived from the park , which was followed before the end of the day by a present of game .  The result of his thoughts appeared at last in these words .  Those who could climb , climbed .  It was a struggle between propriety and vanity ; but vanity got the better , and then Elizabeth was happy again .  Jane Fairfax had already quitted Highbury , and was restored to the comforts of her beloved home with the Campbells. -- The Mr. Churchills were also in town ; and they were only waiting for November .  His enquiries , however , produced at length an account of the scene she had been engaged in there , soon after his leaving the place .  And all the other little people who happened to be where they could see did the same thing .  --  When she looked at the hedges , she thought the elder at least must soon be coming out ; and when she turned round to Harriet , she saw something like a look of spring , a tender smile even there .  He persisted in having loved none but her .  Miss Woodhouse , what a pity that I must not write this beautiful charade into my book !  my dear , it is not like Hartfield .  stop ! ''  MY girls were nothing to her , and yet they used to be foolish enough ; but as for Miss Marianne , she is quite an altered creature .  Perhaps the Burgomaster would know the right thing to do ?  But as he was passing the windows of the kitchen the Cook looked out and saw him .  Wingfield thinks the vicinity of Brunswick Square decidedly the most favourable as to air . ''  We shall be most happy to consider you as one of the party . ''  They all three called in Rivers Street for a couple of minutes ; but Anne convinced herself that a day 's delay of the intended communication could be of no consequence , and hastened forward to the White Hart , to see again the friends and companions of the last autumn , with an eagerness of good-will which many associations contributed to form .  When he told me that it might be many weeks before we met again -- his distress -- can I ever forget his distress ? ''  `` Excuse me , '' said Jane earnestly , `` I can not by any means consent to such an arrangement , so needlessly troublesome to your servant .  She performed her promise of being discreet , to admiration. -- She attended to all that Mrs. Jennings had to say upon the subject , with an unchanging complexion , dissented from her in nothing , and was heard three times to say , `` Yes , ma'am . ''  `` Difference !  You pierce my soul .  `` Oh !  Out hopped ten tiny fairies , no bigger than that !  `` My own loss is great , '' be continued , `` in being obliged to leave so agreeable a party ; but I am the more concerned , as I fear my presence is necessary to gain your admittance at Whitwell . ''  a word to the wise. -- I am in a fine flow of spirits , a n't I ?  At another time Emma might have been amused , but she was too much astonished now at Mr. Elton 's spirits for other feelings .  It will be giving him so much pleasure !  If he were , every thing else must give way ; but otherwise his friend Cole had been saying so much about his dining with him -- had made such a point of it , that he had promised him conditionally to come .  Oh , come and see ! ''  It will be taking out my freedom. -- I dare say they sell gloves . ''  Have you any thing to send or say , besides the `love , ' which nobody carries ? ''  Shabby fellows , both of them !  He was arm-in-arm with Mr .  Ay , it is but too true .  He then took leave of the whole party .  He knows he is wrong , and has nothing rational to urge. -- Bad. -- He ought not to have formed the engagement. -- `His father 's disposition : ' -- he is unjust , however , to his father .  said Elinor .  But does it follow that had he married you , he would have been happy ? -- The inconveniences would have been different .  I can only pronounce him to be a sensible man , well-bred , well-informed , of gentle address , and , I believe , possessing an amiable heart . ''  She now resolved to keep Harriet no longer in the dark .  `` No .  `` I 'll do that for you , '' said the tailor .  He did really look and speak as if in a state of no common enjoyment .  Whatever may have changed him now , ( and nothing but the blackest art employed against me can have done it ) , I was once as dear to him as my own soul could wish .  There he stands to this day , with his one eye , his one wing , and his one leg .  For a short time he sat deep in thought , after Elinor had ceased to speak ; -- at last , and as if it were rather an effort , he said ,  Margery and her mother had taken so much pains in thinking out the arrangement of the flowers , that perhaps you will like to hear just how they designed that garden .  `` I have let my house to Admiral Croft , '' would sound extremely well ; very much better than to any mere Mr -- ; a Mr ( save , perhaps , some half dozen in the nation , ) always needs a note of explanation .  she said .  `` It appears to me a plan that nobody can object to , if Mr. and Mrs. Weston do not .  `` Altered beyond his knowledge . ''  After a good many compliments to Jane on her dress and look , compliments very quietly and properly taken , Mrs. Elton was evidently wanting to be complimented herself -- and it was , `` How do you like my gown ? -- How do you like my trimming ? -- How has Wright done my hair ? ''  I have some little concern in the business , as well as yourself , for Lucy Steele is my cousin , and I believe there is not a better kind of girl in the world , nor one who more deserves a good husband . ''  If it was not for the drawback of her illness -- but I am afraid we must expect to see her grown thin , and looking very poorly .  This decided the matter at once .  Anne was now at hand to take up her own cause , and the sincerity of her manner being soon sufficient to convince him , where conviction was at least very agreeable , he had no farther scruples as to her being left to dine alone , though he still wanted her to join them in the evening , when the child might be at rest for the night , and kindly urged her to let him come and fetch her , but she was quite unpersuadable ; and this being the case , she had ere long the pleasure of seeing them set off together in high spirits .  You are not serious ?  But Miss Bates soon came -- '' Very happy and obliged '' -- but Emma 's conscience told her that there was not the same cheerful volubility as before -- less ease of look and manner .  Never , never can it be !  I wanted to know a little more , and this tells me quite enough .  roll me around ! ''  I can not doubt it .  Will you come and spend some time at Cleveland this Christmas ?  I was last month at my friend Elliott 's , near Dartford .  `` If I did not know her to be happy now , '' said Emma , seriously , `` which , in spite of every little drawback from her scrupulous conscience , she must be , I could not bear these thanks ; -- for , oh !  The old Alligator was so furious that he crawled up on the bank and went after the little Jackal ; but , dear , dear , he could n't catch the little Jackal ; he ran far too fast .  When she saw him , so helpless and so beautiful , crying for his mother , the king 's daughter pitied him and loved him .  you see ! ''  The varieties of handwriting were farther talked of , and the usual observations made .  But '' ( with a little return of anxiety ) `` it can not be expected to last long .  He saw Farmer Brown's boy filling a great tin pail with blueberries , and he knew that Farmer Brown 's boy did n't know that Buster Bear was anywhere about , and he knew that Buster Bear did n't know that Farmer Brown 's boy was anywhere about , and somehow he felt very sure that he would see something funny happen if they should chance to meet .  And then , in little square patches all round the garden , were planted London pride , blue bachelor 's buttons , yellow marigolds , tall larkspur , many-coloured asters , hollyhocks and stocks .  Whatever money he might come into when his father died , whatever his share of the family property , it is , I dare say , all afloat , all employed in his stock , and so forth ; and though , with diligence and good luck , he may be rich in time , it is next to impossible that he should have realised any thing yet . ''  `` The post-office is a wonderful establishment ! ''  He roared with all his might !  She had had it from Mrs Wallis herself , which did not seem bad authority .  But she was too ignorant and giddy for respect , and he had never loved her .  I fancy I am rather a favourite ; he took notice of my gown .  The introduction must be unpleasant , whenever it takes place ; and the sooner it could be over , the better . ''  How I should like such a house for myself !  `` I think that is interesting , '' said Margery .  There was little sympathy to be spared for any body else .  While supposed to be writing only to Captain Benwick , he had been also addressing her !  I have been always used to a very small income , and could struggle with any poverty for him ; but I love him too well to be the selfish means of robbing him , perhaps , of all that his mother might give him if he married to please her .  I admire them much more if they are tall , straight , and flourishing .  Charles , being somewhat more mindful of the probabilities of the case , only nodded in reply , and walked away .  `` My gracious sakes alive , Epaminondas , you ai n't got the sense you was born with !  `` -- Mrs. Weston , I suppose , '' interrupted Mrs. Elton , rather mortified .  How do you like Bath , Miss Elliot ?  Have patience with me , I shall soon have done. -- She closed with this offer , resolving to break with me entirely , and wrote the next day to tell me that we never were to meet again. -- _She_ _felt_ _the_ _engagement_ _to_ _be_ _a_ _source_ _of_ _repentance_ _and_ _misery_ _to_ _each_ : _she_ _dissolved_ _it_. -- This letter reached me on the very morning of my poor aunt 's death .  She had the remembrance of all this , she had the consciousness of being nine-and-twenty to give her some regrets and some apprehensions ; she was fully satisfied of being still quite as handsome as ever , but she felt her approach to the years of danger , and would have rejoiced to be certain of being properly solicited by baronet-blood within the next twelvemonth or two .  Poor Brandon !  there is nothing in THAT .  Edward , it is so , and I will say it .  Elinor , Elinor , they who suffer little may be proud and independent as they like -- may resist insult , or return mortification -- but I can not .  I am not saying that she did not err in her advice .  I think , Miss Woodhouse , you and I must establish a musical club , and have regular weekly meetings at your house , or ours .  Mr. Frank Churchill was one of the boasts of Highbury , and a lively curiosity to see him prevailed , though the compliment was so little returned that he had never been there in his life .  run !  `` I can not agree with you there , '' said Elinor .  The alteration is not in them , if their parties are grown tedious and dull .  `` 'Ah !  cried Marianne .  Before she had committed herself by any public profession of eternal friendship for Jane Fairfax , or done more towards a recantation of past prejudices and errors , than saying to Mr. Knightley , `` She certainly is handsome ; she is better than handsome ! ''  It saves trouble , and is a something to get me out .  `` _His_ sufferings , '' replied Emma dryly , `` do not appear to have done him much harm .  She promised him again and again to come -- much oftener than he doubted -- and was extremely gratified by such a proof of intimacy , such a distinguishing compliment as she chose to consider it .  `` You will make my excuses , my dear , as civilly as possible .  A short account of myself , I believe , will be necessary , and it SHALL be a short one .  Mr. Knightley saw no such passion , and of course thought nothing of its effects ; but she saw too much of it to feel a doubt of its overcoming any hesitations that a reasonable prudence might originally suggest ; and more than a reasonable , becoming degree of prudence , she was very sure did not belong to Mr. Elton .  `` When the weather is settled , and I have recovered my strength , '' said she , `` we will take long walks together every day .  What arises from discretion must be honoured . ''  ONE person I was sure would represent me as capable of any thing -- What I felt was dreadful ! -- My resolution was soon made , and at eight o'clock this morning I was in my carriage .  I have not the smallest doubt of the issue .  I know you will not be sorry to be off .  Then taking a small miniature from her pocket , she added , `` To prevent the possibility of mistake , be so good as to look at this face .  Though , perhaps , as the _Chaperon_ of the party -- _I_ never was in any circle -- exploring parties -- young ladies -- married women -- ''  While Admiral Croft was taking this walk with Anne , and expressing his wish of getting Captain Wentworth to Bath , Captain Wentworth was already on his way thither .  I knew how it would be .  He then made his bow , and departed with the rest .  Who is it ?  They hardly can satisfy a woman of her good sense and quick feelings : standing in a mother 's place , but without a mother 's affection to blind her .  But she remembered , and kept still .  I am sure we do .  Here Mr. Weston joined them , and on hearing what was proposed , gave it his decided approbation .  The Lord , who delivered me out of the paw of the lion and out of the paw of the bear , he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine . ''  After this the little Jackal kept away from the river , out of danger .  `` My friend Mr. Perry !  For half an hour Mr. Weston was surprized and sorry ; but then he began to perceive that Frank 's coming two or three months later would be a much better plan ; better time of year ; better weather ; and that he would be able , without any doubt , to stay considerably longer with them than if he had come sooner .  You and Mr. Elton are one as clever as the other .  And I should never have expected you to be lending your sanction to such vanity-baits for poor young ladies . ''  `` Boaster !  Depend upon it that whatever unemployed sum may remain , when I make up my accounts in the spring , I would even rather lay it uselessly by than dispose of it in a manner so painful to you .  She met him with a hand that would be taken , and a voice that expressed the affection of a sister .  said she : `` did you ever sit for your picture ? ''  It is now three years ago ( she had just reached her fourteenth year , ) that I removed her from school , to place her under the care of a very respectable woman , residing in Dorsetshire , who had the charge of four or five other girls of about the same time of life ; and for two years I had every reason to be pleased with her situation .  He had never had an idea of throwing himself off ; he had feared that he was thrown off , but knew not why , and delicacy had kept him silent .  THE SHEPHERD How sweet is the Shepherd 's sweet lot !  Mrs. Churchill rules at Enscombe , and is a very odd-tempered woman ; and his coming now , depends upon her being willing to spare him . ''  I knew who it came from .  Sir John 's confidence in his own judgment rose with this animated praise , and he set off directly for the cottage to tell the Miss Dashwoods of the Miss Steeles ' arrival , and to assure them of their being the sweetest girls in the world .  `` What is it ? ''  There was so much of friendliness , and of flattery , and of everything most bewitching in his reception there ; the old were so hospitable , the young so agreeable , that he could not but resolve to remain where he was , and take all the charms and perfections of Edward 's wife upon credit a little longer .  I will not reason here -- nor will I stop for YOU to expatiate on the absurdity , and the worse than absurdity , of scrupling to engage my faith where my honour was already bound .  It was after tea that Jane spoke to Mrs .  `` You have given Miss Smith all that she required , '' said he ; `` you have made her graceful and easy .  He sat a little while in doubt .  It had been my doing , solely mine .  `` My dearest Emma , do not pretend , with your sweet temper , to understand a bad one , or to lay down rules for it : you must let it go its own way .  `` One had rather , on such occasions , do too much than too little .  At her time of life , any thing of an illness destroys the bloom for ever !  She continued to look back , but in vain ; and soon , with what appeared unusual speed , they were half way down the hill , and every thing left far behind .  They had disappeared as completely as if they never had been , and Old Man Coyote had taken care to leave no trace of his visit .  She had seen too much of the world , to expect sudden or disinterested attachment anywhere , but her illness had proved to her that her landlady had a character to preserve , and would not use her ill ; and she had been particularly fortunate in her nurse , as a sister of her landlady , a nurse by profession , and who had always a home in that house when unemployed , chanced to be at liberty just in time to attend her .  Oh !  He had walked up one day after dinner , as he very often did , to spend his evening at Hartfield .  Sammy was on the lookout very early the next morning .  `` I was not at all aware of this .  `` We 'll do it right away . ''  Let us make the best of it -- and , indeed , almost every thing may be fairly said in her favour .  `` But she will be gained by some one else .  You know , Mrs. Weston , you and I must be cautious how we express ourselves .  The misfortune of Harriet 's cold had been pretty well gone through before her arrival .  I can hardly write .  `` If he could stay only a couple of days , he ought to come ; and one can hardly conceive a young man 's not having it in his power to do as much as that .  It happened that he got no game .  As it was , he did nothing with much zeal , but sport ; and his time was otherwise trifled away , without benefit from books or anything else .  said Buster in his deep , grumbly-rumbly voice .  `` So very kind ! ''  Their estate was large , and their residence was at Norland Park , in the centre of their property , where , for many generations , they had lived in so respectable a manner as to engage the general good opinion of their surrounding acquaintance .  Not unfrequently , through Emma 's persuasion , he had some of the chosen and the best to dine with him : but evening parties were what he preferred ; and , unless he fancied himself at any time unequal to company , there was scarcely an evening in the week in which Emma could not make up a card-table for him .  `Why , to be sure , ma'am , ' said she , `it would not prevent his marrying anybody else . '  `` Oh !  The surgeon was with them almost before it had seemed possible .  The old Alligator thought to himself that he must certainly pretend to be the little House , or the little Jackal would never come in .  `` Will you repeat to your sister when she is recovered , what I have been telling you ? -- Let me be a little lightened too in her opinion as well as in yours .  `` The cruelty , the impolitic cruelty , '' -- he replied , with great feeling , -- '' of dividing , or attempting to divide , two young people long attached to each other , is terrible. -- Mrs. Ferrars does not know what she may be doing -- what she may drive her son to .  One morning , very soon after the dinner at the Musgroves , at which Anne had not been present , Captain Wentworth walked into the drawing-room at the Cottage , where were only herself and the little invalid Charles , who was lying on the sofa .  I 'll try it to-morrow morning . ''  Then they would find out for sure if what Little Joe Otter had said was true , -- that Farmer Brown 's boy really was afraid of Buster Bear .  But when King Saul died , the people chose David for their king , because there was no one so brave , so wise , or so faithful to God .  He was , at that time , a remarkably fine young man , with a great deal of intelligence , spirit , and brilliancy ; and Anne an extremely pretty girl , with gentleness , modesty , taste , and feeling .  The giant drank another gallon then , and the tailor let another gallon down into the skin , but the giant thought he was drinking it .  Then we will lead him to where Buster Bear is .  Such was the sentence which , when misunderstood , so justly offended the delicate feelings of Mrs. Jennings ; but after this narration of what really passed between Colonel Brandon and Elinor , while they stood at the window , the gratitude expressed by the latter on their parting , may perhaps appear in general , not less reasonably excited , nor less properly worded than if it had arisen from an offer of marriage .  Her heart was hardened against the belief of Mrs. Jennings 's entering into her sorrows with any compassion .  But I thought I would just tell you of this , because I knew how much it must please you .  When at last she returned to the unconscious Marianne , she found her just awaking , refreshed by so long and sweet a sleep to the extent of her hopes .  Impossible that any situation could be more replete with comfort ; if we except , perhaps , Mrs. Suckling 's own family , and Mrs. Bragge 's ; but Mrs. Smallridge is intimate with both , and in the very same neighbourhood : -- lives only four miles from Maple Grove .  The muffin last night -- if it had been handed round once , I think it would have been enough . ''  Or wilt thou go ask the Mole : Can Wisdom be put in a silver rod ?  `` Indeed you did .  And this is the end , you see , of Captain Benwick 's being supposed to be an admirer of yours .  This was all that was generally known of her history .  `` What shall you do !  I offered immediately , as soon as my mother related the affair to me , to talk to him myself , and dissuade him from the match ; but it was too late THEN , I found , to do any thing , for unluckily , I was not in the way at first , and knew nothing of it till after the breach had taken place , when it was not for me , you know , to interfere .  `` You are very kind , '' said Lady Middleton to Elinor ; `` and as you really like the work , perhaps you will be as well pleased not to cut in till another rubber , or will you take your chance now ? ''  She had been used to affluence : it was gone .  The little girls used to put shells in their hats for a sign they were on a pilgrimage , as the old pilgrims used to do ; then they made journeys over the hill behind the house , and through the woods , and down the lanes ; and when the pilgrimage was over they had apples and nuts to eat , in the happy land of home .  Elinor then heard Willoughby say , in a low voice to Marianne , `` There are some people who can not bear a party of pleasure .  Harriet , Harriet , do not deceive yourself ; do not be run away with by gratitude and compassion .  THE COUNTRY MOUSE AND THE CITY MOUSE Once a little mouse who lived in the country invited a little mouse from the city to visit him .  And when at last they finished , they had stripped the fields of the army of crickets ; and the people were saved .  `` Yes , '' said Harriet earnestly , `` and well she might , nobody could ever have a better .  `` It is too small -- wants strength .  Anne could listen no longer ; she could not even have told how the poor Admiral 's complexion escaped ; her letter engrossed her .  This was too much for the good Moon ; he put out his big light , all at once , and left the sky pitch-black .  `` Pray , '' said Captain Wentworth , immediately , `` can you tell us the name of the gentleman who is just gone away ? ''  Waiving that point , however , and supposing her to be , as you describe her , only pretty and good-natured , let me tell you , that in the degree she possesses them , they are not trivial recommendations to the world in general , for she is , in fact , a beautiful girl , and must be thought so by ninety-nine people out of an hundred ; and till it appears that men are much more philosophic on the subject of beauty than they are generally supposed ; till they do fall in love with well-informed minds instead of handsome faces , a girl , with such loveliness as Harriet , has a certainty of being admired and sought after , of having the power of chusing from among many , consequently a claim to be nice .  Right then and there Buster Bear nearly had a fit .  say beautiful rather .  You see I can not leave Mrs .  `` Yes .  I went in for three minutes , and was detained by Miss Bates 's being absent .  For Mercy , Pity , Peace , and Love , Is God our Father dear ; And Mercy , Pity , Peace , and Love , Is man , his child and care .  Cold-hearted Elinor !  There he heard the whole court buzzing with gossip .  She was sitting by Mr. Knightley , and turned to him for help .  It was so sweet and funny and sad and real , -- like our own lives , -- that everybody wanted to read it .  This was very proper ; the sigh which accompanied it was really estimable ; but it should have lasted longer .  The quiet , heart-felt satisfaction of the old lady , and the rapturous delight of her daughter -- who proved even too joyous to talk as usual , had been a gratifying , yet almost an affecting , scene .  He earnestly pressed her , after giving the particulars of the house and garden , to come with her daughters to Barton Park , the place of his own residence , from whence she might judge , herself , whether Barton Cottage , for the houses were in the same parish , could , by any alteration , be made comfortable to her .  But take it away , and all _appropriation_ ceases , and a very pretty gallant charade remains , fit for any collection .  Elinor had seen so little of Mr. Palmer , and in that little had seen so much variety in his address to her sister and herself , that she knew not what to expect to find him in his own family .  You would not think it to look at him , but he is bilious -- Mr. Cole is very bilious .  Six years of separation and suffering might have been spared .  `` Mr .  The idea of Edward 's being a clergyman , and living in a small parsonage-house , diverted him beyond measure ; -- and when to that was added the fanciful imagery of Edward reading prayers in a white surplice , and publishing the banns of marriage between John Smith and Mary Brown , he could conceive nothing more ridiculous .  She has a great deal too much of the Elliot pride .  The Lion above shook his mane again and growled again , and made a terrible face .  Margery wondered what in the world he meant ; it had not been cultivated , of course , but what had that do with the kind of plough ?  `` Well , sir , and what said Mrs .  `` No , '' replied be , with sudden consciousness , `` not to find it in YOU ; for I can not be ignorant that to you , to your goodness , I owe it all. -- I feel it -- I would express it if I could -- but , as you well know , I am no orator . ''  `` I am not speaking of its prudence ; merely its probability . ''  It was kindly said , and very far from giving offence .  First had come the fright back there in the Old Pasture .  `` I have not said , exert yourself Harriet for my sake ; think less , talk less of Mr. Elton for my sake ; because for your own sake rather , I would wish it to be done , for the sake of what is more important than my comfort , a habit of self-command in you , a consideration of what is your duty , an attention to propriety , an endeavour to avoid the suspicions of others , to save your health and credit , and restore your tranquillity .  cried Mrs Clay , not daring , however , to turn her eyes towards Anne .  Right away everybody began to talk at the same time .  `How d 'ye do ? '  `` I have just had the honour of receiving your letter , for which I beg to return my sincere acknowledgments .  He was soon pretty well resigned .  But in spite of the work and suffering , the Israelites remained strong , and more and more boys grew up , to make the king afraid .  She was as much convinced of his meaning to gain Anne in time as of his deserving her , and was beginning to calculate the number of weeks which would free him from all the remaining restraints of widowhood , and leave him at liberty to exert his most open powers of pleasing .  After waiting a few moments he said , and as if it were the result of immediate feeling , `` It is a period , indeed !  The other two warmly agreed with what he said , and she then appeared .  there was no getting away from one 's self .  dear , no , '' said her companion .  After the hints you gave just now , which did but confirm my own observations , the last time I was in company with him , I need not affect to have no comprehension of what is going on .  My dear sir , you really are too bountiful .  The fact is , he was afraid to .  She heard of her walking with the Eltons , sitting with the Eltons , spending a day with the Eltons !  Just then , the little Gingerbread Boy came to a river .  My mother says the orchard was always famous in her younger days .  Jane Fairfax was very elegant , remarkably elegant ; and she had herself the highest value for elegance .  Weston was alone in the drawing-room : -- but hardly had they been told of the baby , and Mr. Woodhouse received the thanks for coming , which he asked for , when a glimpse was caught through the blind , of two figures passing near the window .  walking up that hill again would do her more harm than any sitting down could do her good ; '' and , in short , her look and manner declared , that go she would not .  cried Marianne .  Buster sighed .  `` Where is he now ? ''  The Tiger grumbled a good deal , but at last he went on again with the Brahmin .  It grieved her to see the earnestness with which he often watched Marianne , and his spirits were certainly worse than when at Barton .  They planted peas , beans , spinach , carrots , and parsnips .  `` Pardon me , dear cousin , you are unjust in your own claims .  Somebody had placed her , several years back , at Mrs. Goddard 's school , and somebody had lately raised her from the condition of scholar to that of parlour-boarder .  Everybody 's heart is open , you know , when they have recently escaped from severe pain , or are recovering the blessing of health , and Nurse Rooke thoroughly understands when to speak .  It may not be felt in Bath , with your nice pavements ; but in the country it is of some consequence .  I should have expected better judgment in Colonel Campbell . ''  But this I can say , that if he ever was a beau before he married , he is one still for there is not the smallest alteration in him . ''  Marianne Dashwood was born to an extraordinary fate .  `` Am I not pleasing to you ? ''  The idea of becoming what her mother had been ; of having the precious name of `` Lady Elliot '' first revived in herself ; of being restored to Kellynch , calling it her home again , her home for ever , was a charm which she could not immediately resist .  It was the arrival of this very invitation while the Westons were at Hartfield , which made their presence so acceptable ; for though her first remark , on reading it , was that `` of course it must be declined , '' she so very soon proceeded to ask them what they advised her to do , that their advice for her going was most prompt and successful .  `` I was afraid you would think I was taking a great liberty with you , '' said she , `` in telling you all this .  I have a very sincere interest in Emma .  Oh !  CHAPTER 30  no , indeed ; I must protest against any such idea .  Her father and Lady Dalrymple were speaking .  `` I am the Fairy of Fortune , '' the beautiful lady said , `` and that is my castle .  I did not know my danger till the danger was removed ; but with such feelings as these reflections gave me , I wonder at my recovery , -- wonder that the very eagerness of my desire to live , to have time for atonement to my God , and to you all , did not kill me at once .  With regard to Charles Hayter , she had delicacy which must be pained by any lightness of conduct in a well-meaning young woman , and a heart to sympathize in any of the sufferings it occasioned ; but if Henrietta found herself mistaken in the nature of her feelings , the alternation could not be understood too soon .  She sat by the drawing-room fire after tea , till the moment of Lady Middleton 's arrival , without once stirring from her seat , or altering her attitude , lost in her own thoughts , and insensible of her sister 's presence ; and when at last they were told that Lady Middleton waited for them at the door , she started as if she had forgotten that any one was expected .  They had begun to fail him before he entered the house , and they were quite overcome by the captivating manners of Mrs. Dashwood .  Marianne had promised to be guided by her mother 's opinion , and she submitted to it therefore without opposition , though it proved perfectly different from what she wished and expected , though she felt it to be entirely wrong , formed on mistaken grounds , and that by requiring her longer continuance in London it deprived her of the only possible alleviation of her wretchedness , the personal sympathy of her mother , and doomed her to such society and such scenes as must prevent her ever knowing a moment 's rest .  `` Upon my word , Emma . ''  I am delighted to find myself in such a circle .  The wind blows through one of the cupboards just in the same way . ''  `` I doubt its being very clever myself , '' said Mr. Weston .  You may have done wrong with regard to Mr. Dixon , but this is a punishment beyond what you can have merited ! -- The kindness and protection of Mrs .  He is only a commander , it is true , made last summer , and these are bad times for getting on , but he has not another fault that I know of .  Anne was to leave them on the morrow , an event which they all dreaded .  But one must not expect every thing ; though I suppose it would be no difficult matter to widen them .  What a very good-looking man ! ''  Her admiration and regard , even her sisterly regard , was all his own ; but he was a lover ; his attentions were wholly Marianne 's , and a far less agreeable man might have been more generally pleasing .  Little did Mr. Willoughby imagine , I suppose , when his looks censured me for incivility in breaking up the party , that I was called away to the relief of one whom he had made poor and miserable ; but HAD he known it , what would it have availed ?  Only think , Mamma , how it is improved since I was here last !  And where are your sisters ?  Is not it so ? ''  That could not be -- and I was formally dismissed from her favour and her house .  `` We must go , '' said Sir John. -- '' It shall not be put off when we are so near it .  Mr. Palmer made her no answer , and did not even raise his eyes from the newspaper .  Forgive me , if I am very saucy .  such an aunt ! ''  said he directly , `there is nothing in the way of fruit half so good , and these are the finest-looking home-baked apples I ever saw in my life . '  The excellence of his understanding and his principles can be concealed only by that shyness which too often keeps him silent .  Her own situation gained in the comparison ; for while she could ESTEEM Edward as much as ever , however they might be divided in future , her mind might be always supported .  Serious she was , very serious in her thankfulness , and in her resolutions ; and yet there was no preventing a laugh , sometimes in the very midst of them .  But who else was there to employ ?  `` Leave it to me .  I think you will agree with me , ( turning with a soft air to Emma , ) I think I shall certainly have your approbation , though Mr. Knightley perhaps , from being used to the large parties of London , may not quite enter into our feelings . ''  Look at it !  To quit the neighbourhood of Norland was no longer an evil ; it was an object of desire ; it was a blessing , in comparison of the misery of continuing her daughter-in-law 's guest ; and to remove for ever from that beloved place would be less painful than to inhabit or visit it while such a woman was its mistress .  `` Mr. Knightley 's air is so remarkably good that it is not fair to compare Mr. Martin with _him_ .  Dorsetshire !  But Saul looked at David , and said , `` Thou art not able to go against this Philistine , to fight with him , for thou art but a youth , and he has been a man of war from his youth . ''  `` Never , Brother Brahmin ! ''  `` I can hardly tell myself .  The word _home_ made his father look on him with fresh complacency .  It would be a great comfort to Mr. Weston , as he grew older -- and even Mr. Weston might be growing older ten years hence -- to have his fireside enlivened by the sports and the nonsense , the freaks and the fancies of a child never banished from home ; and Mrs. Weston -- no one could doubt that a daughter would be most to her ; and it would be quite a pity that any one who so well knew how to teach , should not have their powers in exercise again .  I promised my wife to leave it all to her .  She dared not look up ; -- but her mother and Marianne both turned their eyes on him .  `` Knightley has taken pity on poor little Miss Smith ! -- Very goodnatured , I declare . ''  `` Well , and that is as early as most men can afford to marry , who are not born to an independence .  `` A very fine young man indeed ! ''  She had thought only of avoiding Captain Wentworth ; but an escape from being appealed to as umpire was now added to the advantages of a quiet evening .  `` Ah , my dear , '' said he , `` poor Miss Taylor -- It is a grievous business . ''  They had no inclination to listen to her .  You will see nothing of it by candlelight .  `` No , not true on your side .  For some time she was amused , without thinking beyond the immediate cause ; but as she came to understand the family better , other feelings arose .  When the trappers found him they were delighted to have caught a curiosity , and they immediately dragged him to the palace courtyard .  He thought she had undertaken more than she was equal to , and that she felt it so herself , though she would not own it .  `` If you were as much guided by nature in your estimate of men and women , and as little under the power of fancy and whim in your dealings with them , as you are where these children are concerned , we might always think alike . ''  Then came trouble !  While I , to blind the world to our engagement , was behaving one hour with objectionable particularity to another woman , was she to be consenting the next to a proposal which might have made every previous caution useless ? -- Had we been met walking together between Donwell and Highbury , the truth must have been suspected. -- I was mad enough , however , to resent. -- I doubted her affection .  Soon that , too , was gone , but long , long afterward the men and animals who were saved by the Cloud kept her blessing in their hearts .  Miss Elliot , surrounded by her cousins , and the principal object of Colonel Wallis 's gallantry , was quite contented .  She knows nothing herself , and looks upon Emma as knowing every thing .  The girls were now hunting for the Laconia ; and Captain Wentworth could not deny himself the pleasure of taking the precious volume into his own hands to save them the trouble , and once more read aloud the little statement of her name and rate , and present non-commissioned class , observing over it that she too had been one of the best friends man ever had .  But at the same time , she could not help thinking that no one could so well perform it as himself .  `` This present from the Campbells , '' said she -- '' this pianoforte is very kindly given . ''  He almost wished she had been prevailed on to come home the day before ; but the truth was , that Mrs Harville left nothing for anybody to do . ''  `` Not at all -- I never saw him ; but I fancy he is very unlike his brother -- silly and a great coxcomb . ''  It was a night of almost equal suffering to both .  I came to inquire , but I was convinced before I could ask the question .  There was something in her style of beauty , to please them particularly .  When he gave his promise to his father , he meditated within himself to increase the fortunes of his sisters by the present of a thousand pounds a-piece .  Has Emma read it all ?  How can I ask them away from her ? ''  Her eagerness to be gone from Norland was preserved from diminution by the evident satisfaction of her daughter-in-law in the prospect of her removal ; a satisfaction which was but feebly attempted to be concealed under a cold invitation to her to defer her departure .  After another short hesitation , `` I hope it does not proceed from -- I hope it is not in compliment to Mr .  Now , upon his father 's marriage , it was very generally proposed , as a most proper attention , that the visit should take place .  He did not suppose they could be damp now , in the middle of the day .  `` Aye , very true , my dear , '' cried the latter , though Jane had not spoken a word -- '' I was just going to say the same thing .  I mean to offer some kind of explanation , some kind of apology , for the past ; to open my whole heart to you , and by convincing you , that though I have been always a blockhead , I have not been always a rascal , to obtain something like forgiveness from Ma -- from your sister . ''  One can guess what will happen there .  That is , _I_ always had a strong persuasion he would be here again soon , I was sure something favourable would turn up -- but nobody believed me .  It was almost too wonderful for belief , and it was with the greatest effort that she could remain in the room , preserve an air of calmness , and answer the common questions of the moment .  And , as the horse chased him , he looked over his shoulder and cried , -- `` Run !  Are no probabilities to be accepted , merely because they are not certainties ?  And the lock of hair -- that too I had always carried about me in the same pocket-book , which was now searched by Madam with the most ingratiating virulence , -- the dear lock -- all , every memento was torn from me . ''  By a former marriage , Mr. Henry Dashwood had one son : by his present lady , three daughters .  If you want to find Mr. Bear , you will have to go to the Great Woods .  I think we must get him to Bath .  She learned that ( the intimacy between them continuing unimpaired by Mr Elliot 's marriage ) they had been as before always together , and Mr Elliot had led his friend into expenses much beyond his fortune .  The mother Lark laughed .  Just as she said it , she turned round , and there stood the ugly old Fox , with his big bag over his shoulder .  `` Certainly : Captain Benwick . ''  or in the anxious supplement from Mary , of -- `` Upon my word , I shall be pretty well off , when you are all gone away to be happy at Bath ! ''  A very good man , and very much the gentleman I am sure : but I should think , Miss Elliot , '' ( looking with serious reflection ) , `` I should think he must be rather a dressy man for his time of life .  said the Tortoise .  And after thinking it all over and over again , he said , it seemed to him as if , now he had no fortune , and no nothing at all , it would be quite unkind to keep her on to the engagement , because it must be for her loss , for he had nothing but two thousand pounds , and no hope of any thing else ; and if he was to go into orders , as he had some thoughts , he could get nothing but a curacy , and how was they to live upon that ? -- He could not bear to think of her doing no better , and so he begged , if she had the least mind for it , to put an end to the matter directly , and leave him shift for himself .  `` She will not be surprized , papa , at least . ''  You were very popular before you came , because you were Mr. Weston 's son -- but lay out half a guinea at Ford 's , and your popularity will stand upon your own virtues . ''  He had not seen Louisa ; and was so extremely fearful of any ill consequence to her from an interview , that he did not press for it at all ; and , on the contrary , seemed to have a plan of going away for a week or ten days , till her head was stronger .  `` Who is that ? ''  I am not conscious of having provoked the disappointment by any imprudence of my own , I have borne it as much as possible without spreading it farther .  One day she was sitting there , all by herself , and it was very still .  What a letter the man writes ! ''  Sincerely wish you happy in your choice , and it shall not be my fault if we are not always good friends , as our near relationship now makes proper .  She never stopt till she had gone through the whole ; and though it was impossible not to feel that he had been wrong , yet he had been less wrong than she had supposed -- and he had suffered , and was very sorry -- and he was so grateful to Mrs. Weston , and so much in love with Miss Fairfax , and she was so happy herself , that there was no being severe ; and could he have entered the room , she must have shaken hands with him as heartily as ever .  So the little brown Mouse was the little Red Man 's servant , and every day he made the little Red Man 's bed and swept the little Red Man 's room and cooked the little Red Man 's broth .  Elinor did not offer to detain him ; and they parted , with a very earnest assurance on HER side of her unceasing good wishes for his happiness in every change of situation that might befall him ; on HIS , with rather an attempt to return the same good will , than the power of expressing it .  If I could but see her again ! -- But I must not propose it yet .  It is a sort of prologue to the play , a motto to the chapter ; and will be soon followed by matter-of-fact prose . ''  The varieties in the fitting-up of the rooms , where the common necessaries provided by the owner , in the common indifferent plight , were contrasted with some few articles of a rare species of wood , excellently worked up , and with something curious and valuable from all the distant countries Captain Harville had visited , were more than amusing to Anne ; connected as it all was with his profession , the fruit of its labours , the effect of its influence on his habits , the picture of repose and domestic happiness it presented , made it to her a something more , or less , than gratification .  She had seen him .  `` Tell me that one ! ''  He was very patient , very , very patient , but his patience brought no reward , not so much as the faintest kind of a nibble .  The morning that we parted too !  Elizabeth had turned from him , Lady Russell overlooked him ; her nerves were strengthened by these circumstances ; she felt that she owed him attention .  Whereas , in my opinion , by her taking so much notice of you , and treating you in this kind of way , she has given you a sort of claim on her future consideration , which a conscientious woman would not disregard .  Mrs. Martin had told her one day ( and there was a blush as she said it , ) that it was impossible for any body to be a better son , and therefore she was sure , whenever he married , he would make a good husband .  `` And have you never known the pleasure and triumph of a lucky guess ? -- I pity you. -- I thought you cleverer -- for , depend upon it a lucky guess is never merely luck .  The sweet scenes of autumn were for a while put by , unless some tender sonnet , fraught with the apt analogy of the declining year , with declining happiness , and the images of youth and hope , and spring , all gone together , blessed her memory .  Not that you have any reason to regret , my dear Elinor .  In this state of her spirits , a letter was delivered to her from the post , which contained a proposal particularly well timed .  `` All this , however , '' he continued , `` was urged in vain .  `` I often feel concern , '' said she , `` that I dare not make our carriage more useful on such occasions .  Papa 's eyes began to twinkle .  `` I have no doubt of his being a most amiable young man .  Then the snow will melt again and icy rain will clothe me , and the bitter wind will rattle my bare twigs up and down .  The ladies recovered themselves first .  Elinor was robbed of all presence of mind by such an address , and was unable to say a word .  She was vexed .  What had Edward felt on being within four miles from Barton , on seeing her mother 's servant , on hearing Lucy 's message !  `` Poor comfort ! ''  She must not make it a more decided subject of misery to him , by a melancholy tone herself .  To give up one 's child !  `` Mrs. Robert Ferrars ! ''  `` Well , now you shall hear something that will surprise you .  He had told her that he could not allow himself the pleasure of stopping at Hartfield , as he was to be at home by the middle of the day .  This picture , she had allowed herself to believe , might have been accidentally obtained ; it might not have been Edward 's gift ; but a correspondence between them by letter , could subsist only under a positive engagement , could be authorised by nothing else ; for a few moments , she was almost overcome -- her heart sunk within her , and she could hardly stand ; but exertion was indispensably necessary ; and she struggled so resolutely against the oppression of her feelings , that her success was speedy , and for the time complete .  `` I beg your pardon , madam , this is your seat ; '' and though she immediately drew back with a decided negative , he was not to be induced to sit down again .  But SHE does every thing well . ''  The extreme sweetness of her temper must hurt his .  `` Four months ! ''  I assure you that nothing of the sort you are thinking of will be settled any week .  But this did not last long ; Elinor had hardly got their last visitors out of her head , had hardly done wondering at Charlotte 's being so happy without a cause , at Mr. Palmer 's acting so simply , with good abilities , and at the strange unsuitableness which often existed between husband and wife , before Sir John 's and Mrs. Jennings 's active zeal in the cause of society , procured her some other new acquaintance to see and observe .  Have not I done well , mother ? ''  He listened to her with silent attention , and on her ceasing to speak , rose directly from his seat , and after saying in a voice of emotion , `` to your sister I wish all imaginable happiness ; to Willoughby that he may endeavour to deserve her , '' -- took leave , and went away .  I am sure , Anne , if you would , you might persuade him that I really am very ill -- a great deal worse than I ever own . ''  On Mrs. Jennings 's compassion she had other claims .  Two maids and two men , indeed ! -- as I talked of t'other day. -- No , no , they must get a stout girl of all works. -- Betty 's sister would never do for them NOW . ''  Mr Elliot 's having any views on me will not in the least account for the efforts he made towards a reconciliation with my father .  `` A great coxcomb ! ''  I love my mother 's hair .  `` He thinks Mrs Clay afraid of him , aware that he sees through her , and not daring to proceed as she might do in his absence .  As she passed the travellers , she turned her face to them and smiled .  He would gladly weaken , by any fair means , whatever feelings or speculations concerning him might exist ; and he went , therefore , to his brother 's , meaning after a while to return to Kellynch , and act as circumstances might require .  An ' thin , a minute afther , In comes the small Rid Hin , An ' shuts the door , and locks it , too , An ' thinks , `` I 'm safely in . ''  Big as he is , he can walk without making the teeniest , weeniest sound .  Hoppity-kick , hoppity-kick , the little Half-Chick skipped past the sentry at the gate , and hoppity-kick , hoppity-kick , he crossed the court .  However , this does make a difference ; and , perhaps , when we come to talk it over -- but these sort of things require a good deal of consideration .  So he opened his mouth and let the little Jackal go .  `` As _yours_ ?  He rose up , and walked across the room .  `` Is it very ugly ? ''  Outside the palace was the loveliest garden in the whole world , and farther away was a forest where the trees were taller than any other trees in the world , and farther away , still , was a deep wood .  By their uncertain light she thought she could discern it to be drawn by four horses ; and this , while it told the excess of her poor mother 's alarm , gave some explanation to such unexpected rapidity .  the pains I have been at to dispel those gloomy ideas and give him cheerfuller views !  Combine Beauty , Rank , _and_ Wealth , and you have the whole world at your feet .  Then his face brightened .  `` I can not be bothered with you ; I am off to Madrid , to see the King ! ''  She listened , and found it well worth listening to .  `` None at all , ma'am , I thank you . ''  And he went laughing off , hoppity-kick , hoppity-kick .  She had been the only one of the set absent , for Sir Walter and Elizabeth had not only been quite at her ladyship 's service themselves , but had actually been happy to be employed by her in collecting others , and had been at the trouble of inviting both Lady Russell and Mr Elliot ; and Mr Elliot had made a point of leaving Colonel Wallis early , and Lady Russell had fresh arranged all her evening engagements in order to wait on her .  According to Miss Bates -- it all came from her -- Mrs. Dixon had written most pressingly .  `` I have still the advantage of you by sixteen years ' experience , and by not being a pretty young woman and a spoiled child .  Oh no !  Very soon they went away , and came back again with a big basket , which they carried between them .  `` Reddy , Reddy , smart and sly , Could n't catch a buzzing fly ! ''  She thought there was an air of greater happiness than usual -- a glow both of complexion and spirits .  Captain Wentworth was gone , for the present , to see his brother in Shropshire .  `` Such a home , indeed !  To those , however , he was very well disposed to attach himself .  If you could be supposed to be biased in any respect by your own feelings , your opinion would not be worth having . ''  However , when I read on , I found it was not near so bad as I had fancied at first ; and I make so light of it now to her , that she does not think much about it .  She has been taught nothing useful , and is too young and too simple to have acquired any thing herself .  Yes , yes , if you please , no reference to examples in books .  But I think , my dear , you said you had got it . ''  That had begun to operate in the very hour of first meeting her in Bath ; that had returned , after a short suspension , to ruin the concert ; and that had influenced him in everything he had said and done , or omitted to say and do , in the last four-and-twenty hours .  Yes , indeed , there is every thing in the world that can make her happy in it .  Elton ? -- That will be a favour indeed !  `` Take care , Margaret .  Have you thought , my dear , where you shall put her -- and what room there will be for the children ? ''  Emma could not but rejoice to hear that she had a fault .  Every thing in such suspense and uncertainty ; and seeing him so seldom -- we can hardly meet above twice a-year .  They had sung together once or twice , it appeared , at Weymouth .  I 'll follow your example , and eat and rest a bit . ''  I owe such a grudge to myself for the stupid , rascally folly of my own heart , that all my past sufferings under it are only triumph and exultation to me now .  Lady Dalrymple had acquired the name of `` a charming woman , '' because she had a smile and a civil answer for everybody .  `` He told me at parting , that he should soon write ; and he spoke in a manner which seemed to promise me many particulars that could not be given now .  Mrs. Elton eagerly interposed with ,  Though it was rather desirable that Mr and Mrs Musgrove should be previously alarmed by some share of delay ; yet the time required by the Uppercross horses to take them back , would be a dreadful extension of suspense ; and Captain Wentworth proposed , and Charles Musgrove agreed , that it would be much better for him to take a chaise from the inn , and leave Mr Musgrove 's carriage and horses to be sent home the next morning early , when there would be the farther advantage of sending an account of Louisa 's night .  Mrs Harville 's giving it as her opinion that her husband would have quite walking enough by the time he reached home , determined the direction of all the party in what was to be their last walk ; they would accompany them to their door , and then return and set off themselves .  Harriet would have been a better match .  Dinner was on table. -- Mrs .  Did you ever see her ?  She followed another carriage to Mr. Cole 's door ; and was pleased to see that it was Mr. Knightley 's ; for Mr. Knightley keeping no horses , having little spare money and a great deal of health , activity , and independence , was too apt , in Emma 's opinion , to get about as he could , and not use his carriage so often as became the owner of Donwell Abbey .  She roused herself to say , as they struck by order into another path , `` Is not this one of the ways to Winthrop ? ''  There could not be a doubt , to her mind there was none , of what would follow her recovery .  Then passing through the garden , the gate of which had been left open by Margaret , he bore her directly into the house , whither Margaret was just arrived , and quitted not his hold till he had seated her in a chair in the parlour .  Such was his own account at Randall 's .  Towards the end of Jane 's second song , her voice grew thick .  Now Buster Bear is very smart .  Do you sit where you like ?  Trust to me . ''  Elinor tried to talk of something else ; but Miss Steele could not be kept beyond a couple of minutes , from what was uppermost in her mind .  `` Dear Emma bears every thing so well , '' said her father .  They now walked on together quietly , till within view of the vicarage pales , when a sudden resolution , of at least getting Harriet into the house , made her again find something very much amiss about her boot , and fall behind to arrange it once more .  Their resemblance in good principles and good sense , in disposition and manner of thinking , would probably have been sufficient to unite them in friendship , without any other attraction ; but their being in love with two sisters , and two sisters fond of each other , made that mutual regard inevitable and immediate , which might otherwise have waited the effect of time and judgment .  He can not want money -- he can not want leisure .  She had before conjectured him to be a stranger like themselves , and determined that a well-looking groom , who was strolling about near the two inns as they came back , should be his servant .  She had used him ill , deserted and disappointed him ; and worse , she had shewn a feebleness of character in doing so , which his own decided , confident temper could not endure .  Emma demurred .  The subjects of which her heart had been full on leaving Kellynch , and which she had felt slighted , and been compelled to smother among the Musgroves , were now become but of secondary interest .  She had previously , in the anticipation of their marriage , been very apprehensive of losing her friend by it ; but on being assured that he could have made no attempt of that nature , since he did not even know her to be in Bath , it immediately occurred , that something might be done in her favour by the influence of the woman he loved , and she had been hastily preparing to interest Anne 's feelings , as far as the observances due to Mr Elliot 's character would allow , when Anne 's refutation of the supposed engagement changed the face of everything ; and while it took from her the new-formed hope of succeeding in the object of her first anxiety , left her at least the comfort of telling the whole story her own way .  I am sure I must have been as white as my gown .  `` Oh !  `` Then good-bye , '' said his friend , `` I am off . ''  `` I do remember it , '' cried Emma ; `` I perfectly remember it. -- Talking about spruce-beer. -- Oh !  Captain Benwick and Louisa Musgrove !  He seemed about thirty , and though not handsome , had an agreeable person .  my dear , as Perry says , where health is at stake , nothing else should be considered ; and if one is to travel , there is not much to chuse between forty miles and an hundred. -- Better not move at all , better stay in London altogether than travel forty miles to get into a worse air .  A thousand a-year is a great deal for a mother to give away , to make over for ever ; but Mrs. Ferrars has a noble spirit .  She had no scruple with regard to him .  Show me the cage . ''  As Louisa improved , he had improved , and he was now quite a different creature from what he had been the first week .  `` His regard for her , infinitely surpassing anything that Willoughby ever felt or feigned , as much more warm , as more sincere or constant -- which ever we are to call it -- has subsisted through all the knowledge of dear Marianne 's unhappy prepossession for that worthless young man ! -- and without selfishness -- without encouraging a hope ! -- could he have seen her happy with another -- Such a noble mind ! -- such openness , such sincerity ! -- no one can be deceived in HIM . ''  How Chatterer did wish that he had kept his tongue still !  Marianne coloured as she replied , `` But most people do . ''  And he was really a very pleasing young man , a young man whom any woman not fastidious might like .  But better than fun or writing Louisa loved her mother , and by and by , as the little girl began to grow into a big girl , she felt very sad to see her dear mother work so hard .  