She prized the frank , the open-hearted , the eager character beyond all others .  I do not wonder at you .  Emma was obliged to ask what they had told her , though fearful of its producing Mr. Elton .  But still I might not have believed it , for where the mind is perhaps rather unwilling to be convinced , it will always find something to support its doubts , if I had not , when the servant let me in today , accidentally seen a letter in his hand , directed to Mr. Willoughby in your sister 's writing .  After a visit on Colonel Brandon 's side of only three or four days , the two gentlemen quitted Barton together. -- They were to go immediately to Delaford , that Edward might have some personal knowledge of his future home , and assist his patron and friend in deciding on what improvements were needed to it ; and from thence , after staying there a couple of nights , he was to proceed on his journey to town .  Margery ran and brought the seed box .  For where'er the sun does shine , And where'er the rain does fall , Babes should never hunger there , Nor poverty the mind appall .  -- What does this mean ?  She would be a loser in every way .  She does not know how to hold her tongue , as you must perceive , and I am sure I was in the greatest fright in the world t'other day , when Edward 's name was mentioned by Sir John , lest she should out with it all .  Edward had two thousand pounds , and Elinor one , which , with Delaford living , was all that they could call their own ; for it was impossible that Mrs. Dashwood should advance anything ; and they were neither of them quite enough in love to think that three hundred and fifty pounds a-year would supply them with the comforts of life .  it DID torture me .  They did not like each other , and no renewal of acquaintance now could do any good ; and were Lady Russell to see them together , she might think that he had too much self-possession , and she too little .  `` Upon my word !  The room at the Crown was to witness it ; -- but it would be better than a common meeting in a crowd .  Elinor thought it wisest to make no answer to this , lest they might provoke each other to an unsuitable increase of ease and unreserve ; and was even partly determined never to mention the subject again .  Gottlieb was not old enough to work , but he would often sit on a small stool at his mother 's feet and dream about the wonderful things he would do for his dear mother when he grew to be a man , and she was comforted as she looked upon her boy , and the thought that she was working for him often gave strength to her tired fingers .  Once upon a time there was a little boy , and he wanted to be a cock-a-doo-dle-doo .  They are very important -- and sorry I am that you can not feel them sufficiently to act upon them .  Yes , yes , I will go and see her , sure enough .  How she should begin -- how she should express herself in her note to Edward , was now all her concern .  `` I hope you will still think it glorious when the weeding time comes , '' he said , `` for you know , you and mother have promised to take care of this garden , while I take care of the big one . ''  I have been to the theatre , and secured a box for to-morrow night .  There is an openness , a quickness , almost a bluntness in Mr. Weston , which every body likes in _him_ , because there is so much good-humour with it -- but that would not do to be copied .  Plain dealing was always best .  yes , that I do indeed .  He came with a pretence at an apology from their sister-in-law , for not coming too ; `` but she was so much engaged with her mother , that really she had no leisure for going any where . ''  And so it went , all day .  He began to suspect him of some double dealing in his pursuit of Emma .  She had a little beauty and a little accomplishment , but so little judgment that she thought herself coming with superior knowledge of the world , to enliven and improve a country neighbourhood ; and conceived Miss Hawkins to have held such a place in society as Mrs. Elton 's consequence only could surpass .  I have never seen either Mr. or Mrs. Elton .  When the time proposed drew near , Mrs. Weston 's fears were justified in the arrival of a letter of excuse .  shrieked Blacky the Crow .  If meant to be immediately mixed with the others , and buried from sight , she should have looked on the table instead of looking just across , for it was not mixed ; and Harriet , eager after every fresh word , and finding out none , directly took it up , and fell to work .  She was sorry , very sorry .  They were all at her disposal .  It was soon Uppercross with him almost every day .  Miss Woodhouse , the comfort of being sometimes alone ! ''  `` Mermaids and sharks !  She could now answer as she ought ; and was happy to feel , when Mrs Croft 's next words explained it to be Mr Wentworth of whom she spoke , that she had said nothing which might not do for either brother .  I wish I could work !  There it was again -- '' Help !  `` Those who knew any thing about it , must have felt the difference .  replied the happily deceived aunt , while eagerly hunting for the letter. -- '' Oh !  Call upon her , by all means . ''  Mrs. Weston again , and again , and again , you see .  She ceasd & smild in tears , then sat down in her silver shrine .  Your kindness almost overpowers me .  I believe he is one of the very best-tempered men that ever existed .  He followed her advice for a little , but presently he forgot , and the ring pricked him so sharply that his finger had a drop of blood on it .  `` Oh !  After all these hundreds and hundred of years , we sing them still ; we call them Psalms .  On another lily-pad sat Spotty the Turtle .  Mr. Weston gave her the history of the engagements at Enscombe , which allowed his son to answer for having an entire fortnight at his command , as well as the route and the method of his journey ; and she listened , and smiled , and congratulated .  So then it all came out ; and the long and the short of the matter , by all I can learn , seems to be this .  I do n't understand it at all .  `` Who is Colonel Brandon ?  Mrs. Weston informed her that she was going to call on the Bateses , in order to hear the new instrument .  `` But , my dear sir , the difference of the journey ; -- only consider how great it would have been. -- An hundred miles , perhaps , instead of forty . ''  `` It is strange , '' replied Elinor , in a most painful perplexity , `` that I should never have heard him even mention your name . ''  `` Dear me ! -- it is so odd to hear a woman talk so ! ''  She was quite in an agony .  `` I hope I shall remember , in future , '' said Lady Russell , as soon as they were reseated in the carriage , `` not to call at Uppercross in the Christmas holidays . ''  `` I assure you she did .  Instead of falling a sacrifice to an irresistible passion , as once she had fondly flattered herself with expecting , -- instead of remaining even for ever with her mother , and finding her only pleasures in retirement and study , as afterwards in her more calm and sober judgment she had determined on , -- she found herself at nineteen , submitting to new attachments , entering on new duties , placed in a new home , a wife , the mistress of a family , and the patroness of a village .  said Mrs. Weston in a trembling voice .  The morning was rather favourable , though it had rained all night , as the clouds were then dispersing across the sky , and the sun frequently appeared .  From this time the subject was never revived by Elinor , and when entered on by Lucy , who seldom missed an opportunity of introducing it , and was particularly careful to inform her confidante , of her happiness whenever she received a letter from Edward , it was treated by the former with calmness and caution , and dismissed as soon as civility would allow ; for she felt such conversations to be an indulgence which Lucy did not deserve , and which were dangerous to herself .  `` But she raises none in those most concerned .  You are very right in supposing how my money would be spent -- some of it , at least -- my loose cash would certainly be employed in improving my collection of music and books . ''  The want of Miss Taylor would be felt every hour of every day .  The attachment , from which against honour , against feeling , against every better interest he had outwardly torn himself , now , when no longer allowable , governed every thought ; and the connection , for the sake of which he had , with little scruple , left her sister to misery , was likely to prove a source of unhappiness to himself of a far more incurable nature .  `` 'A few days more , and I drop the white petals down among the grass , and , lo !  cried she playfully .  She had had a disappointment , moreover , which that book , and especially the history of her own family , must ever present the remembrance of .  For now the baby would be known only as the princess's adopted child , and would be safe .  `` Oh , yes ; he had been staying a fortnight with us .  I thought I had seen you first in February . ''  Anne avoided a direct reply , but it was just the circumstance which she considered as not merely unnecessary to be communicated , but as what ought to be suppressed .  Oh , what would HE say to that ! ''  They burst on him , I do not know how , but by some letter or message -- and it was the discovery of what she was doing , of this very project of hers , which determined him to come forward at once , own it all to his uncle , throw himself on his kindness , and , in short , put an end to the miserable state of concealment that had been carrying on so long . ''  His name , he replied , was Willoughby , and his present home was at Allenham , from whence he hoped she would allow him the honour of calling tomorrow to enquire after Miss Dashwood .  I can have no self-command without a motive .  What would you advise me to do in such a case , Miss Dashwood ?  There will be nothing singular in his case ; and it is singularity which often makes the worst part of our suffering , as it always does of our conduct .  `` Well , go on . ''  I think you understand me , therefore . ''  He held out his hand .  Lady Middleton frequently called him to order , wondered how any one 's attention could be diverted from music for a moment , and asked Marianne to sing a particular song which Marianne had just finished .  I dare say my daughter will be here presently , Miss Woodhouse .  `` Thank you , Willoughby .  Used only to a large house himself , and without ever thinking how many advantages and accommodations were attached to its size , he could be no judge of the privations inevitably belonging to a small one .  Her aunt is a good creature , but , as a constant companion , must be very tiresome .  How trifling they make every thing else appear ! -- I feel now as if I could think of nothing but these poor creatures all the rest of the day ; and yet , who can say how soon it may all vanish from my mind ? ''  Now I can not say , that I think you are any of you looking well at present . ''  .  Marianne began now to perceive that the desperation which had seized her at sixteen and a half , of ever seeing a man who could satisfy her ideas of perfection , had been rash and unjustifiable .  We all know the difference between the pronouns he or she and thou , the plainest spoken amongst us ; we all feel the influence of a something beyond common civility in our personal intercourse with each other -- a something more early implanted .  She understood it all ; and as far as her mind could disengage itself from the injustice and selfishness of angry feelings , she acknowledged that Jane Fairfax would have neither elevation nor happiness beyond her desert .  Yes , Marianne , even in a man between thirty and forty .  This was the amount of the whole story , -- of his communication and of Harriet 's as soon as she had recovered her senses and speech. -- He dared not stay longer than to see her well ; these several delays left him not another minute to lose ; and Emma engaging to give assurance of her safety to Mrs. Goddard , and notice of there being such a set of people in the neighbourhood to Mr. Knightley , he set off , with all the grateful blessings that she could utter for her friend and herself .  But Mr. Weston is almost an old man .  Disputable , however , as might be the taste of such a termination , it was in itself a charming walk , and the view which closed it extremely pretty. -- The considerable slope , at nearly the foot of which the Abbey stood , gradually acquired a steeper form beyond its grounds ; and at half a mile distant was a bank of considerable abruptness and grandeur , well clothed with wood ; -- and at the bottom of this bank , favourably placed and sheltered , rose the Abbey Mill Farm , with meadows in front , and the river making a close and handsome curve around it .  I hope time has not made you less willing to pardon .  Dinner-parties and evening-parties were made for him and his lady ; and invitations flowed in so fast that she had soon the pleasure of apprehending they were never to have a disengaged day .  In that point , however , and that only , he erred ; -- for though Lucy soon gave him hopes that his eloquence would convince her in TIME , another visit , another conversation , was always wanted to produce this conviction .  No sooner did she perceive any symptom of love in his behaviour to Elinor , than she considered their serious attachment as certain , and looked forward to their marriage as rapidly approaching .  _What_ she was , must be uncertain ; but _who_ she was , might be found out ; and setting aside the 10,000 l. , it did not appear that she was at all Harriet 's superior .  To see Marianne , I felt , would be dreadful , and I even doubted whether I could see her again , and keep to my resolution .  I must confess it is a recommendation to me .  `` The rest of the foxes are always beating me , and they will not allow me to eat anything with them . ''  She determined , after some consideration , that if appearances continued many days longer as unpleasant as they now were , she would represent in the strongest manner to her mother the necessity of some serious enquiry into the affair .  the Lion will surely catch us this time ! ''  `` I happy am , Joy is my name . ''  We dragged her with us over the rough , long way to our mountain camp , and set a guard over her for the night .  She hardly wished to have more leisure for them .  Mr. Weston 's dining-room does not accommodate more than ten comfortably ; and for my part , I would rather , under such circumstances , fall short by two than exceed by two .  Elinor blushed in spite of herself .  You must go to bed early , my dear -- and I recommend a little gruel to you before you go. -- You and I will have a nice basin of gruel together .  Harriet exactly .  `` Ah !  Beyond the entrance of the valley , where the country , though still rich , was less wild and more open , a long stretch of the road which they had travelled on first coming to Barton , lay before them ; and on reaching that point , they stopped to look around them , and examine a prospect which formed the distance of their view from the cottage , from a spot which they had never happened to reach in any of their walks before .  My mother is so delighted ! -- for she is to be three months with us at least .  Do not you remember what Mr. Perry said , so many years ago , when I had the measles ?  His situation indeed was more than commonly joyful .  Accordingly , with a mixture of the serious and the playful , which she hoped would best suit his half and half state , she replied ,  Well , it do n't signify talking ; but when a young man , be who he will , comes and makes love to a pretty girl , and promises marriage , he has no business to fly off from his word only because he grows poor , and a richer girl is ready to have him .  The word was _blunder_ ; and as Harriet exultingly proclaimed it , there was a blush on Jane 's cheek which gave it a meaning not otherwise ostensible .  `` Alas , I can not make him good , '' said the fairy ; `` he must do that for himself .  Something of that nature would be particularly desirable for _me_ , as an inducement to keep me in practice ; for married women , you know -- there is a sad story against them , in general .  no , the meeting is certainly to-day , '' was the abrupt answer , which denoted the impossibility of any blunder on Mrs. Elton 's side. -- `` I do believe , '' she continued , `` this is the most troublesome parish that ever was .  But though I was always doing wrong things , they were very bad wrong things , and such as did me no service. -- It would have been a much better transgression had I broken the bond of secrecy and told you every thing . ''  As soon as the Frogs came to the surface to greet the new king , King Stork caught them in his long bill and gobbled them up .  He has not been able to get the Romance of the Forest yet .  `` To be sure you did .  He braced himself with all his might , and pulled his best .  He had returned to a late dinner , and walked to Hartfield as soon as it was over .  This time he did n't take his eyes off it .  Then he thought he would go back up the tiny stairs to his own home .  And that brings us back to the question , did Buster steal Farmer Brown 's boy's pail ?  A very desirable connection on both sides , and I have not a doubt of its taking place in time .  We have still four to ask . ''  She remembered what Mr. Knightley had once said to her about Mr. Elton , the caution he had given , the conviction he had professed that Mr. Elton would never marry indiscreetly ; and blushed to think how much truer a knowledge of his character had been there shewn than any she had reached herself .  `` Yes I should , I am sure I should .  `` I shall never let that book go out of my own hands , '' said she .  In about half an hour her mother returned , and though her eyes were red , her countenance was not uncheerful .  ( End of volume one . )  We must wait , it may be for many years .  Buster Bear looked up and grinned , and there was a twinkle in his eyes .  Harriet was standing at one of the windows .  THE LITTLE BOY FOUND The little boy lost in the lonely fen , Led by the wandering light , Began to cry , but God , ever nigh , Appeared like his father , in white .  Mrs Clay was right .  Emma could not help laughing as she answered , `` Upon my word , I believe you know her quite as well as I do. -- But , Mr. Knightley , are you perfectly sure that she has absolutely and downright _accepted_ him .  The dark green Fir looks so majestic when laden with bright toys and lit up by Christmas candles , that perhaps it is not easy to believe that it is the most modest of trees .  At last Jane began , and though the first bars were feebly given , the powers of the instrument were gradually done full justice to .  `` Nonsensical girl ! ''  When he was speaking of it in that way , I honestly said that _the_ _world_ I could give up -- parties , balls , plays -- for I had no fear of retirement .  In person , she was inferior to both sisters , and had , even in her bloom , only reached the dignity of being `` a fine girl . ''  She could not distinguish , but she must guess the subject ; and on Captain Wentworth 's making a distant bow , she comprehended that her father had judged so well as to give him that simple acknowledgement of acquaintance , and she was just in time by a side glance to see a slight curtsey from Elizabeth herself .  Every body must be aware that Miss Taylor must be missed , but every body ought also to be assured that Mr. and Mrs. Weston do really prevent our missing her by any means to the extent we ourselves anticipated -- which is the exact truth . ''  And because she had never worked at all it made her very tired even to try ; she was tired before the morning was over , every day .  I am sure she will be here presently . ''  `` Loose me now , '' said the lion , `` and we 'll fix ourselves and go ploughing . ''  they care no more about such things ! -- ''  `` A puppy-dog , Mammy , '' said Epaminondas .  `` The old lady !  Knightley is quite the gentleman .  This weather will keep many sportsmen in the country . ''  Captain Wentworth , with five-and-twenty thousand pounds , and as high in his profession as merit and activity could place him , was no longer nobody .  Captain Wentworth talked of going there again himself , it was only seventeen miles from Uppercross ; though November , the weather was by no means bad ; and , in short , Louisa , who was the most eager of the eager , having formed the resolution to go , and besides the pleasure of doing as she liked , being now armed with the idea of merit in maintaining her own way , bore down all the wishes of her father and mother for putting it off till summer ; and to Lyme they were to go -- Charles , Mary , Anne , Henrietta , Louisa , and Captain Wentworth .  Their own good-nature must point out to them the real cruelty of appearing to know any thing about it when she is present ; and the less that may ever be said to myself on the subject , the more my feelings will be spared , as you my dear madam will easily believe . ''  And I hope you may have as good luck yourself soon , -- but perhaps you may have a friend in the corner already . ''  He was invited to Kellynch Hall ; he was talked of and expected all the rest of the year ; but he never came .  Was it new for one , perhaps too busy to seek , to be the prize of a girl who would seek him ? -- Was it new for any thing in this world to be unequal , inconsistent , incongruous -- or for chance and circumstance ( as second causes ) to direct the human fate ?  Mrs. Jennings was a widow with an ample jointure .  Harriet was soon back again , and the proposal almost immediately made ; and she had no scruples which could stand many minutes against the earnest pressing of both the others .  `` If her heart does ache , Then let Lyca wake ; If my mother sleep , Lyca shall not weep .  Sometimes they stood and looked up at the Cloud , as if they were praying , and saying , `` Ah , if you could help us ! ''  It was foolish , it was wrong , to take so active a part in bringing any two people together .  `` She knows her own worth too well for false shame , '' replied Edward .  Indeed they are very delightful apples , and Mrs. Wallis does them full justice -- only we do not have them baked more than twice , and Mr. Woodhouse made us promise to have them done three times -- but Miss Woodhouse will be so good as not to mention it .  She felt the loss of Willoughby 's character yet more heavily than she had felt the loss of his heart ; his seduction and desertion of Miss Williams , the misery of that poor girl , and the doubt of what his designs might ONCE have been on herself , preyed altogether so much on her spirits , that she could not bring herself to speak of what she felt even to Elinor ; and , brooding over her sorrows in silence , gave more pain to her sister than could have been communicated by the most open and most frequent confession of them .  And he , the very handsomest man that ever was , and a man that every body looks up to , quite like Mr. Knightley !  He would have laid down to sleep again , but he could hear now the howls of hungry wolves in the woods ; that it did not sound pleasant .  Marianne was , of course , kept in ignorance of all these arrangements .  She saw it all with a clearness which had never blessed her before .  My interference was quite as likely to do harm as good .  She had never rejoiced at the sound before , nor ever before entered the passage , nor walked up the stairs , with any wish of giving pleasure , but in conferring obligation , or of deriving it , except in subsequent ridicule .  I could not bear to have Henry supplanted. -- Mr. Knightley marry ! -- No , I have never had such an idea , and I can not adopt it now .  Somehow , she contrived to keep him hidden for three whole months .  Even this conquest would appear valuable in her eyes .  But the colder it grew and the more it stormed , the tighter the traveller held his cloak around him .  I cut her bonds with my knife , and she looked at me to show that she trusted .  Every report agreed in Captain Wentworth 's appearing fixed in Lyme .  `` I 'll show you how to fool me ! ''  Every body who sees it is struck by its beauty ; but to me , it has been quite a home .  She thought nothing of his attachment , and was insulted by his hopes .  `` Here comes Marianne , '' cried Sir John .  So much novelty and beauty !  Miss Hawkins perhaps wanted a home , and thought this the best offer she was likely to have . ''  `` I confess , '' replied Elinor , `` that every circumstance except ONE is in favour of their engagement ; but that ONE is the total silence of both on the subject , and with me it almost outweighs every other . ''  Absolutely insufferable !  Marianne had retreated as much as possible out of sight , to conceal her distress ; and Margaret , understanding some part , but not the whole of the case , thought it incumbent on her to be dignified , and therefore took a seat as far from him as she could , and maintained a strict silence .  One feels that it can not be a very long acquaintance .  You and I , Emma , will venture to take the part of the poor husband .  A great deal too handsome , in my opinion , for any place THEY can ever afford to live in .  `` Wentworth ?  The woman ate it , and seemed greatly refreshed .  She lived with her single daughter in a very small way , and was considered with all the regard and respect which a harmless old lady , under such untoward circumstances , can excite .  THE DAGDA 'S HARP You know , dears , in the old countries there are many fine stories about things which happened so very long ago that nobody knows exactly how much of them is true .  I have not had so many opportunities of estimating the minuter propensities of his mind , his inclinations and tastes , as you have ; but I have the highest opinion in the world of his goodness and sense .  A fine place , but very retired . ''  Well , it is the oddest thing to me , that a man should use such a pretty girl so ill !  I WILL be calm ; I WILL be mistress of myself . ''  The careless expression was life to Anne , who saw that Captain Wentworth was all attention , looking and listening with his whole soul ; and that the last words brought his enquiring eyes from Charles to herself .  `` Ah ! ''  Those who could climb , climbed .  madness , if it is so ; but I hope you are mistaken . ''  Every feeling was offended ; and the forbearance of her outward submission left a heavy arrear due of secret severity in her reflections on the unmanageable goodwill of Mr. Weston 's temper .  `` I -- I hope so , '' replied Little Joe .  Its effect upon her appears in the immediate resolution it produced : as soon as she found I was really gone from Randalls , she closed with the offer of that officious Mrs. Elton ; the whole system of whose treatment of her , by the bye , has ever filled me with indignation and hatred .  Emma remained very well pleased with this beginning of the acquaintance , and could now engage to think of them all at Randalls any hour of the day , with full confidence in their comfort .  A room at an inn was always damp and dangerous ; never properly aired , or fit to be inhabited .  Every bit of money she earned , except what she had to use , she gave to her dear family .  She deprecated the connexion in every light .  Oh no ; we all felt that we were going to be only half a mile apart , and were sure of meeting every day . ''  Once , I felt the fire rather too much ; but then I moved back my chair a little , a very little , and it did not disturb me .  `` I am sorry to find , my love , that my father does not think you looking well -- but I hope it is only from being a little fatigued .  I could not answer it .  `` Where is the green-house to be ? ''  And she talked in this way so long and successfully that , when forced to give her attention again to her father and sister , she had nothing worse to hear than Isabella 's kind inquiry after Jane Fairfax ; and Jane Fairfax , though no great favourite with her in general , she was at that moment very happy to assist in praising .  'The lock of hair , ( repeating it from the letter , ) which you so obligingly bestowed on me ' -- That is unpardonable .  Mr Elliot had called repeatedly , had dined with them once , evidently delighted by the distinction of being asked , for they gave no dinners in general ; delighted , in short , by every proof of cousinly notice , and placing his whole happiness in being on intimate terms in Camden Place .  and have you actually found happiness in treasuring up these things ? ''  Only think of those sweet verses -- `To Miss -- -- -- -- . '  `` Aye , I see what you are thinking of , the pianoforte .  as fast as you can !  But , I assure you , I have never been in the house above twice in my life . ''  Pretty soon the whole garden was lined with little trenches .  Marianne heard enough .  They owed to him their two or three politest puzzles ; and the joy and exultation with which at last he recalled , and rather sentimentally recited , that well-known charade ,  Absence , with the conviction probably of her indifference , had produced this very natural and very desirable effect .  `` This explains it .  Oh !  The letter F -- had been likewise invariably brought forward , and found productive of such countless jokes , that its character as the wittiest letter in the alphabet had been long established with Elinor .  `` It would be something remarkable , now , '' he continued , `` something droll , if Fanny should have a brother and I a sister settling at the same time .  When they stopped at the door , Mrs. Jennings recollected that there was a lady at the other end of the street on whom she ought to call ; and as she had no business at Gray 's , it was resolved , that while her young friends transacted their 's , she should pay her visit and return for them .  what can you possibly have to do ? ''  `` Mr. Elton 's manners are not perfect , '' replied Emma ; `` but where there is a wish to please , one ought to overlook , and one does overlook a great deal .  Marianne had been two or three days at home , before the weather was fine enough for an invalid like herself to venture out .  He was a married man , and without children ; the very state to be wished for .  Husbands and wives generally understand when opposition will be vain .  On such a subject , '' sighing heavily , `` can I have little temptation to be diffuse . ''  To him therefore the succession to the Norland estate was not so really important as to his sisters ; for their fortune , independent of what might arise to them from their father 's inheriting that property , could be but small .  If the errand were not a pleasure to me , it could be done , as it always is when I am not here , by my grandmama 's . ''  I was quite a proverb for it at Maple Grove .  To steal is to take something which belongs to some one else .  `` And if you find them troublesome , you must send them home again . ''  You may think , Miss Elliot , whether he is dear to us ! ''  But the neighbours might stare and ask questions if they saw these little chaps running about your house , so I will hide them away for you .  Elton may talk sentimentally , but he will act rationally .  The backgammon-table was placed ; but a visitor immediately afterwards walked in and made it unnecessary .  `` John enters like a brother into my happiness , '' continued Mr. Knightley , `` but he is no complimenter ; and though I well know him to have , likewise , a most brotherly affection for you , he is so far from making flourishes , that any other young woman might think him rather cool in her praise .  No , he could not believe it a bad house ; not such a house as a man was to be pitied for having .  And she did not feel much delighted with the idea of such a sister-in-law .  The scheme had received its first impulse by Captain Harville 's wanting to come to Bath on business .  The rich brother-in-law near Bristol was the pride of the alliance , and his place and his carriages were the pride of him .  Charles , Henrietta , and Captain Wentworth were the three in consultation , and for a little while it was only an interchange of perplexity and terror .  It did her no service however .  But now she made the sudden resolution of not passing their door without going in -- observing , as she proposed it to Harriet , that , as well as she could calculate , they were just now quite safe from any letter from Jane Fairfax .  `` Did not you know , '' said Willoughby , `` that we had been out in my curricle ? ''  And away she went ; but returning again in a moment ,  Her income was not her own , she said , with such perpetual claims on it ; and it was the more unkind in my father , because , otherwise , the money would have been entirely at my mother 's disposal , without any restriction whatever .  `` Is Mr. Willoughby much known in your part of Somersetshire ? ''  `` You are expecting a letter , then ? ''  I am sure they were talking of me ; and I could not help thinking that he was persuading her to speak to me -- ( do you think he was , Miss Woodhouse ? )  Do not you see that , at this instant , the very passage of her own letter , which sent me the report , is passing under her eye -- that the whole blunder is spread before her -- that she can attend to nothing else , though pretending to listen to the others ? ''  He did n't think anything about the right or wrong of helping himself .  _May_ I have a garden ? ''  Of pride , indeed , there was , perhaps , scarcely enough ; his indifference to a confusion of rank , bordered too much on inelegance of mind .  I could not go back to the old bad life , and I had never learned an honest way to earn my bread .  About the middle of the day , Mrs. Jennings went out by herself on business , and Elinor began her letter directly , while Marianne , too restless for employment , too anxious for conversation , walked from one window to the other , or sat down by the fire in melancholy meditation .  Have you heard the news ?  `` Well may you wonder , Marianne , '' replied her brother , `` at the obstinacy which could resist such arguments as these .  said Mrs. Weston , `` have not you finished it yet ?  `` Break this heavy chain , That does freeze my bones around !  He too was much distressed ; and they sat down together in a most promising state of embarrassment. -- Whether he had asked her pardon for his intrusion on first coming into the room , he could not recollect ; but determining to be on the safe side , he made his apology in form as soon as he could say any thing , after taking a chair .  CHAPTER 7  She was not obliged to hear .  But for this strange kind of secrecy maintained by them relative to their engagement , which in fact concealed nothing at all , she could not account ; and it was so wholly contradictory to their general opinions and practice , that a doubt sometimes entered her mind of their being really engaged , and this doubt was enough to prevent her making any inquiry of Marianne .  THE LITTLE JACKALS AND THE LION Once there was a great big jungle ; and in the jungle there was a great big Lion ; and the Lion was king of the jungle .  Their presence always gave her pain , and she hardly knew how to make a very gracious return to the overpowering delight of Lucy in finding her STILL in town .  He must and does love her I am sure . ''  Harriet could just answer , `` Oh !  So it was agreed that Blacky should try his plan the very next morning .  To know that he has not thrown himself away , is such a comfort ! -- She does seem a charming young woman , just what he deserves .  `` Poor young man ! -- and what is to become of him ? ''  `` Why , '' said the fox , `` I would not catch you if I could .  No sooner was her answer dispatched , than Mrs. Dashwood indulged herself in the pleasure of announcing to her son-in-law and his wife that she was provided with a house , and should incommode them no longer than till every thing were ready for her inhabiting it .  I did not see you before .  He paused .  He could not believe her to be encouraging him .  The Parrys and Sandersons luckily are coming tonight you know , and that will amuse her . ''  THE CHIMNEY-SWEEPER When my mother died I was very young , And my father sold me while yet my tongue Could scarcely cry `` Weep !  Well , so much the better for him .  Chapter 5  He might observe that it was so .  I guess I 'll go eat that lunch I left back by the spring , and then I 'll go home .  `` So ? ''  He gave one more frightened look down at those big teeth , then he shut his eyes and jumped -- jumped straight out for the far-away ground .  A variety of evils crossed his mind .  Now all this time the other little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows had been hiding where they could see all that went on .  She would not have been puzzled , had she dared fix on them .  their luxury and ease .  A mutual silence took place for some time .  And soon afterwards , on the second boy 's violently pinching one of the same lady 's fingers , she fondly observed , `` How playful William is ! ''  But here you are in Bath , and the object is to be established here with all the credit and dignity which ought to belong to Sir Walter Elliot .  Poor old Sir Archibald !  Your sister need not have any scruple even of visiting HER , which , to say the truth , has been a little the case , and very naturally ; for we only knew that Mrs. Jennings was the widow of a man who had got all his money in a low way ; and Fanny and Mrs. Ferrars were both strongly prepossessed , that neither she nor her daughters were such kind of women as Fanny would like to associate with .  It was now about the time that she was likely to call .  Pray come in ; do come in .  He worked as hard as he could , and still he could not earn enough to keep himself and his wife .  Do not let us be too solemn on the business .  But just now she could think only of Captain Wentworth .  This is all that I can relate of the how , where , and when .  just the trifling , silly fellow I took him for . ''  He is so very superior .  Their journey was safely performed .  She was always on friendly terms with her brother-in-law ; and in the children , who loved her nearly as well , and respected her a great deal more than their mother , she had an object of interest , amusement , and wholesome exertion .  `` Oh !  The news of his cousins Anne 's engagement burst on Mr Elliot most unexpectedly .  A very gracious invitation was returned , and the evening no longer dreaded by the fair mistress of the mansion .  I 'll swallow you whole , that 's what I 'll do .  Why a Nostril wide inhaling terror trembling & affright Why a tender curb upon the youthful burning boy ?  Elinor made her a civil reply , and they walked on for a few minutes in silence .  I believe Mrs Charles is not quite pleased with my not inviting them oftener ; but you know it is very bad to have children with one that one is obligated to be checking every moment ; `` do n't do this , '' and `` do n't do that ; '' or that one can only keep in tolerable order by more cake than is good for them . ''  `` No , I thank you .  He stopped at Highbury , at the Bates 's , I fancy , some time -- and then came on hither ; but was in such a hurry to get back to his uncle , to whom he is just now more necessary than ever , that , as I tell you , he could stay with us but a quarter of an hour. -- He was very much agitated -- very much , indeed -- to a degree that made him appear quite a different creature from any thing I had ever seen him before. -- In addition to all the rest , there had been the shock of finding her so very unwell , which he had had no previous suspicion of -- and there was every appearance of his having been feeling a great deal . ''  `` These are difficulties which you must settle for yourself .  `` You speak too plain .  They should take care of their health and their complexion .  `` Not your vain spirit , but your serious spirit. -- If one leads you wrong , I am sure the other tells you of it . ''  Yet as often as they find my eyrie , men stone my young and rob my nest and shoot at me with arrows .  And there , before him , stood a queer little Red Man !  It is a sweet place , by all accounts . ''  Elinor sighed over the fancied necessity of this ; but to a man and a soldier she presumed not to censure it .  How directly , how strongly had he expressed himself to her on the subject ! -- Not too strongly for the offence -- but far , far too strongly to issue from any feeling softer than upright justice and clear-sighted goodwill. -- She had no hope , nothing to deserve the name of hope , that he could have that sort of affection for herself which was now in question ; but there was a hope ( at times a slight one , at times much stronger , ) that Harriet might have deceived herself , and be overrating his regard for _her_. -- Wish it she must , for his sake -- be the consequence nothing to herself , but his remaining single all his life .  `` There is no hurry on my side .  And it was so .  Like him , she had tried the scheme and rejected it ; but such an alternative as this had not occurred to her .  Now I am secure of you for ever . ''  `` This ring , '' she said , `` will help you to be good ; when you do evil , it will prick you , to remind you .  Put it up , put it up ; we will have a good talk about it some other time , but it will not do now .  And what do you think he did ?  Whenever James goes over to see his daughter , you know , she will be hearing of us .  `` Elegant , agreeable manners , I was prepared for , '' said he ; `` but I confess that , considering every thing , I had not expected more than a very tolerably well-looking woman of a certain age ; I did not know that I was to find a pretty young woman in Mrs .  There can be no doubt that Lady Russell and Anne were both occasionally thinking of Captain Benwick , from this time .  They walked together .  It seemed as if Mr Shepherd , in this anxiety to bespeak Sir Walter 's good will towards a naval officer as tenant , had been gifted with foresight ; for the very first application for the house was from an Admiral Croft , with whom he shortly afterwards fell into company in attending the quarter sessions at Taunton ; and indeed , he had received a hint of the Admiral from a London correspondent .  Nothing ever happened on either side that was not announced immediately .  On the contrary , with a mind and body alike strengthened by rest , she looked and spoke with more genuine spirit , anticipating the pleasure of Margaret 's return , and talking of the dear family party which would then be restored , of their mutual pursuits and cheerful society , as the only happiness worth a wish .  Her astonishment at what she heard was at first too great for words ; but at length forcing herself to speak , and to speak cautiously , she said , with calmness of manner , which tolerably well concealed her surprise and solicitude -- `` May I ask if your engagement is of long standing ? ''  Then he started down the Laughing Brook to try to catch some for himself .  In his marrying such a woman therefore there would be nothing unsuitable .  Mrs. Elton turned to Mrs. Weston .  And , children , the little book made Louisa famous .  But at last she found herself with some surprise , accosted by Miss Steele , who , though looking rather shy , expressed great satisfaction in meeting them , and on receiving encouragement from the particular kindness of Mrs. Jennings , left her own party for a short time , to join their 's .  I question whether Marianne NOW , will marry a man worth more than five or six hundred a-year , at the utmost , and I am very much deceived if YOU do not do better .  Then might she again take up the book of books with as much enjoyment as in her early youth , but now she liked it not .  `` Her sufferings have been very severe .  They needed a good friend , now .  In her own room , she tried to comprehend it .  `` I can not imagine , '' said Mrs. Elton , ( feeling the indignity as a wife ought to do , ) `` I can not imagine how he could do such a thing by you , of all people in the world !  `` Since the idea had been started in the very quarter which ought to dictate , he had no scruple , '' he said , `` in confessing his judgement to be entirely on that side .  THE SICK ROSE O rose , thou art sick !  The clown 's head sank in his hands .  THE GINGERBREAD MAN Once upon a time there was a little old woman and a little old man , and they lived all alone in a little old house .  His importance at Enscombe was very evident .  He felt it all , so much for her sake .  When Sir John returned , he joined most heartily in the general regret on so unfortunate an event ; concluding however by observing , that as they were all got together , they must do something by way of being happy ; and after some consultation it was agreed , that although happiness could only be enjoyed at Whitwell , they might procure a tolerable composure of mind by driving about the country .  The Miss Steeles removed to Harley Street , and all that reached Elinor of their influence there , strengthened her expectation of the event .  She must not appear to think it a misfortune. -- With all the spirits she could command , she prepared him first for something strange , and then , in a few words , said , that if his consent and approbation could be obtained -- which , she trusted , would be attended with no difficulty , since it was a plan to promote the happiness of all -- she and Mr. Knightley meant to marry ; by which means Hartfield would receive the constant addition of that person 's company whom she knew he loved , next to his daughters and Mrs. Weston , best in the world .  In any other place Sir Walter might judge for himself ; and would be looked up to , as regulating the modes of life in whatever way he might choose to model his household . ''  `` No , indeed , I have no doubts at all on that head .  I shall forget my own name soon , I suppose .  `` Miss Elliot , I am sure you are tired , '' cried Mrs Croft .  Every door was now closed , the passage plan given up , and the first scheme of dancing only in the room they were in resorted to again ; and with such good-will on Frank Churchill 's part , that the space which a quarter of an hour before had been deemed barely sufficient for five couple , was now endeavoured to be made out quite enough for ten .  _He could now lay down his life that the life of another might be saved ! _ `` May _I_ help you , please ? ''  Take my word for it , that , if I am alive , I shall be paying a visit at Delaford Parsonage before Michaelmas ; and I am sure I sha'nt go if Lucy a n't there . ''  `` I hope my dear Miss Dashwood will excuse the liberty I take of writing to her ; but I know your friendship for me will make you pleased to hear such a good account of myself and my dear Edward , after all the troubles we have went through lately , therefore will make no more apologies , but proceed to say that , thank God !  I could not believe it. -- My mother was the first person who told me of it ; and I , feeling myself called on to act with resolution , immediately said to her , 'My dear madam , I do not know what you may intend to do on the occasion , but as for myself , I must say , that if Edward does marry this young woman , I never will see him again . '  About this time the two Miss Steeles , lately arrived at their cousin 's house in Bartlett 's Buildings , Holburn , presented themselves again before their more grand relations in Conduit and Berkeley Streets ; and were welcomed by them all with great cordiality .  `` Thief , thief , thief ! ''  `` What am I to imagine , Willoughby , by your behaviour last night ?  The Crofts were to have possession at Michaelmas ; and as Sir Walter proposed removing to Bath in the course of the preceding month , there was no time to be lost in making every dependent arrangement .  Then she carried her milk to her customers in the little cart every morning ; and as she went , she begged the pieces of food left over from the hotels and rich houses , and brought it back in the cart to the hungry children in the asylum .  `` When the first of hers reached me ( as it immediately did , for I was in town the whole time , ) what I felt is -- in the common phrase , not to be expressed ; in a more simple one -- perhaps too simple to raise any emotion -- my feelings were very , very painful. -- Every line , every word was -- in the hackneyed metaphor which their dear writer , were she here , would forbid -- a dagger to my heart .  Disingenuousness and double dealing seemed to meet him at every turn .  It was just half a chicken .  At last , however , my resolution was taken , and I had determined , as soon as I could engage her alone , to justify the attentions I had so invariably paid her , and openly assure her of an affection which I had already taken such pains to display .  How do you all do ? -- Quite well , I am much obliged to you .  `` No , no , no , it can not be , '' she cried ; `` she can not feel .  As she thought less of his inebriety , she thought more of his inconstancy and presumption ; and with fewer struggles for politeness , replied ,  An express arrived at Randalls to announce the death of Mrs. Churchill !  The news was universally a surprize wherever it spread ; and Mr. Weston had his five minutes share of it ; but five minutes were enough to familiarise the idea to his quickness of mind. -- He saw the advantages of the match , and rejoiced in them with all the constancy of his wife ; but the wonder of it was very soon nothing ; and by the end of an hour he was not far from believing that he had always foreseen it .  She spoke with a confidence which staggered , with a satisfaction which silenced , Mr. Knightley .  There lived out o'er the hill , In a great din o ' rocks , A crafty , shly , and wicked Ould folly iv a Fox .  Chapter 22  After dinner she would try her piano-forte .  So the Ducks brought a strong little stick and took hold of the ends , while the Tortoise bit firmly on the middle .  But Mr. Elton , in person , had driven away all such cares .  `` Excuse me , '' said she ; `` and be assured that I meant no offence to you , by speaking , in so quiet a way , of my own feelings .  She knew herself to be of the first utility to the child ; and what was it to her if Frederick Wentworth were only half a mile distant , making himself agreeable to others ?  This , and the manner in which it was said , immediately brought back to her remembrance all the circumstances of his quitting that place , with the uneasiness and suspicions they had caused to Mrs. Jennings , and she was fearful that her question had implied much more curiosity on the subject than she had ever felt .  She had little difficulty in understanding thus much of her rival 's intentions , and while she was firmly resolved to act by her as every principle of honour and honesty directed , to combat her own affection for Edward and to see him as little as possible ; she could not deny herself the comfort of endeavouring to convince Lucy that her heart was unwounded .  `` We have been calling at Randalls , '' said she , `` and found them both at home ; and very pleasant people they seem to be .  `` I know I am very slow ; I can never understand things well unless I see just how they were ; if you could show me now exactly how that door works I am sure I could understand .  Did you think he came directly from town ? ''  why can not I speak to him ? ''  He was sure that it had come from somewhere on the ground , so he peered behind bushes and peeped behind logs and stones , and then just as he had about given up hope of finding where it came from , he went around a little turn in the old cow-path , and there right in front of him was little Mr. Gartersnake , and what do you think he was doing ?  He dismounted and sat down in the cool moss , with his back against a tree .  `` Now that the horse 's head is in proportion , there is not a flaw . ''  `` And now that I understand your question , I must pronounce it to be a very unfair one .  Poor Buster !  They seemed deep in talk .  Here is a nut , '' said he , catching one down from an upper bough .  `` He certainly did .  `` And what did the Colonel say ? ''  A note was written to urge it .  dear , Kingston -- are you ? -- Mrs .  How does he know that he is going on well , or that there may not be a sudden change half an hour hence ?  The time may come when Harry will regret that so large a sum was parted with .  He used to go down by the river and hunt along the edges for crabs and such things .  `` Yes , ma'am -- but not to bide long .  They did not always think alike .  When it came to the place in the story where the giant tried to follow Jack , the little girl cut down the beanstalk , and down came the giant tumbling from the loft .  `` Aye , aye , the parsonage is but a small one , '' said she , after the first ebullition of surprise and satisfaction was over , `` and very likely MAY be out of repair ; but to hear a man apologising , as I thought , for a house that to my knowledge has five sitting rooms on the ground-floor , and I think the housekeeper told me could make up fifteen beds ! -- and to you too , that had been used to live in Barton cottage ! -- It seems quite ridiculous .  But when morning came , two pairs of shoes lay on the bench , most beautifully made , and no sign of anyone who had been there .  very little , Nothing that I regard . ''  `` Ah !  Only think of their coming so suddenly !  But he found a garden of wild figs , which were so good that he went there every day , and ate them instead of shell-fish .  How do you like it ? -- Selina 's choice -- handsome , I think , but I do not know whether it is not over-trimmed ; I have the greatest dislike to the idea of being over-trimmed -- quite a horror of finery .  They are both delightful women , indeed ! -- I wonder I should never hear you say how agreeable Mrs. Dashwood was ! ''  Though better endowed than the elder sister , Mary had not Anne 's understanding nor temper .  `` The next time you write to your good father , Miss Elliot , pray give him my compliments and Mrs Croft 's , and say that we are settled here quite to our liking , and have no fault at all to find with the place .  What wild imaginations one forms where dear self is concerned !  By this time the little Gingerbread Boy was so proud that he didn't think anybody could catch him .  I was almost afraid you would be hurrying home . ''  `` A relative of yours , I presume , Sire ? ''  I know him well .  I hope not of a putrid infectious sort .  Come , and tell me .  The interest of two thousand pounds -- how can a man live on it ? -- and when to that is added the recollection , that he might , but for his own folly , within three months have been in the receipt of two thousand , five hundred a-year ( for Miss Morton has thirty thousand pounds , ) I can not picture to myself a more wretched condition .  Willoughby was all that her fancy had delineated in that unhappy hour and in every brighter period , as capable of attaching her ; and his behaviour declared his wishes to be in that respect as earnest , as his abilities were strong .  And when it was time to read her will , the people found that , with all her giving , she had still saved a great deal of money , and that she had left every penny of it to the different orphan asylums of the city , -- each one of them was given something .  `` Colonel Brandon ! ''  Mr. Knightley , who , for some reason best known to himself , had certainly taken an early dislike to Frank Churchill , was only growing to dislike him more .  It keeps nodding , nodding to me behind the fence ; what does it say , mamma ? ''  Presently , as the great stones moved round and round , Frode , who still stood by , heard one chant in a low , sing-song voice , -- `` I see a fire east of the town -- the curlews awake and sound a note of warning .  Such a number of looking-glasses !  `` But I do not see why poor Isabella should be obliged to go back so soon , though he does .  But , my dear Elinor , what is the matter with Marianne ? -- she looks very unwell , has lost her colour , and is grown quite thin .  The answer was , `` Oh , no ; never ; she has quite given up dancing .  Of course Blacky the Crow and Sammy Jay , who , because they can fly , have nothing to fear from Buster , and who always delight in making other people uncomfortable , never let a chance go by to tell Buster and everybody else within hearing what they thought of him .  `` No , I am sure it is not from the Campbells .  `` Will you make me a berry pie if I will get the berries to-morrow ? ''  He turned to Mrs. Weston to implore her assistance , `` Would not she give him her support ? -- would not she add her persuasions to his , to induce Miss Woodhouse not to go to Mrs. Goddard 's till it were certain that Miss Smith 's disorder had no infection ?  But she felt that it was so , long , long before she could feel his influence less .  `` What glorious weather for the Admiral and my sister !  No , these were noises which belonged to the winter pleasures ; her spirits rose under their influence ; and like Mrs Musgrove , she was feeling , though not saying , that after being long in the country , nothing could be so good for her as a little quiet cheerfulness .  The wedding was no distant event , as the parties had only themselves to please , and nothing but the necessary preparations to wait for ; and when he set out for Bath again , there was a general expectation , which a certain glance of Mrs. Cole 's did not seem to contradict , that when he next entered Highbury he would bring his bride .  After much tugging and pulling they got a large dried prune out of the jar on to the shelf and began to nibble at it .  Can not you invent a few hardships for yourself , and be contented to stay ? ''  There will be very little merit in making a good wife to such a man as Mr .  whispered Mary very audibly .  I 'm sure there 's a vast many smart beaux in Exeter ; but you know , how could I tell what smart beaux there might be about Norland ; and I was only afraid the Miss Dashwoods might find it dull at Barton , if they had not so many as they used to have .  He has had great faults , faults of inconsideration and thoughtlessness ; and I am very much of his opinion in thinking him likely to be happier than he deserves : but still as he is , beyond a doubt , really attached to Miss Fairfax , and will soon , it may be hoped , have the advantage of being constantly with her , I am very ready to believe his character will improve , and acquire from hers the steadiness and delicacy of principle that it wants .  Margery could hardly wait to open it .  It was a pity that she had not come back earlier !  My dear Harriet , what are you thinking of ?  Would they only have gone away , and left her in the quiet possession of that room it would have been her cure ; but to have them all standing or waiting around her was distracting , and in desperation , she said she would go home .  Every one capable of thinking felt the advantage of the idea , and in a moment ( it was all done in rapid moments ) Captain Benwick had resigned the poor corpse-like figure entirely to the brother 's care , and was off for the town with the utmost rapidity .  asked Mrs .  Can a mother sit and hear An infant groan , an infant fear ?  But Elinor would not give her any encouragement to hope that she SHOULD tell her sister .  He lived to exert , and frequently to enjoy himself .  It is Mr Elliot himself . ''  She had gone to her letters , and found it all as she supposed ; and the re-perusal of these letters , after so long an interval , her poor son gone for ever , and all the strength of his faults forgotten , had affected her spirits exceedingly , and thrown her into greater grief for him than she had know on first hearing of his death .  `` But he talked of flannel waistcoats , '' said Marianne ; `` and with me a flannel waistcoat is invariably connected with aches , cramps , rheumatisms , and every species of ailment that can afflict the old and the feeble . ''  He had gone away deeply offended -- he came back engaged to another -- and to another as superior , of course , to the first , as under such circumstances what is gained always is to what is lost .  The evil day was put off .  No ; whatever it might once have been , she could not believe it such at present .  `` I do not want to pry into other men 's concerns .  Such might be his constitution ; and as she knew that eating and drinking were often the cure of such incidental complaints , she recommended his taking some refreshment ; he would find abundance of every thing in the dining-room -- and she humanely pointed out the door .  Then , when the men came back from the battle , weary and wounded , the Dagda would take his harp and strike a few chords , and as the magic music stole out upon the air , every man forgot his weariness and the smart of his wounds , and thought of the honour he had won , and of the comrade who had died beside him , and of the safety of his wife and children .  Anne mentioned the glimpses she had had of him at Lyme , but without being much attended to .  But instead of having any thing to do , instead of having any profession chosen for me , or being allowed to chuse any myself , I returned home to be completely idle ; and for the first twelvemonth afterwards I had not even the nominal employment , which belonging to the university would have given me ; for I was not entered at Oxford till I was nineteen .  When he had finished it , he started on to do some fishing himself .  Sweet Joy I call thee : Thou dost smile , I sing the while ; Sweet joy befall thee !  She ran away to indulge the inclination , leaving the tender and the sublime of pleasure to Harriet 's share .  The advantage of his having to come only to Uppercross , instead of going six miles another way ; of his having , in every respect , a better curacy ; of his belonging to their dear Dr Shirley , and of dear , good Dr Shirley 's being relieved from the duty which he could no longer get through without most injurious fatigue , had been a great deal , even to Louisa , but had been almost everything to Henrietta .  Anne , amused in spite of herself , was rather distressed for an answer , and the Admiral , fearing he might not have been civil enough , took up the subject again , to say --  asked her mother .  `` Shall I ring the bell ? ''  Anybody between fifteen and thirty may have me for asking .  `` Little Half-Chick , '' said the Wind , `` you are just in time to help me ; if you will brush aside these twigs and leaves , I can get my breath ; help me , quickly ! ''  `` His aunt was so much better , that he had not a doubt of getting over to them . '' -- Mrs .  He was coming through the hall .  Mrs. Jennings soon came in .  Restless and dissatisfied every where , her sister could never obtain her opinion of any article of purchase , however it might equally concern them both : she received no pleasure from anything ; was only impatient to be at home again , and could with difficulty govern her vexation at the tediousness of Mrs. Palmer , whose eye was caught by every thing pretty , expensive , or new ; who was wild to buy all , could determine on none , and dawdled away her time in rapture and indecision .  He could say no more , and rising hastily walked for a few minutes about the room .  I can safely say I owe you no ill-will , and am sure you will be too generous to do us any ill offices .  What 's this ? ''  She is very timid and silent .  They asked the little Nightingale to sing , over and over again , and when they had listened enough the Emperor said that she should be made `` Singer in Chief to the Court . ''  After many years of this pleasant living , the pond became very low , in a dry season ; and finally it dried up .  The rest of the party were now returning , and all were soon collected .  `` Mr. Palmer is so droll ! ''  I had heard you described by those who knew you intimately .  Marianne 's was finished in a very few minutes ; in length it could be no more than a note ; it was then folded up , sealed , and directed with eager rapidity .  Emma recollected , blushed , was sorry , but tried to laugh it off .  Weston ! -- Astonished that the person who had brought me up should be a gentlewoman !  Marianne was rejoiced to find her sister so easily pleased .  poor man !  She will probably have soon done , and then we shall go home .  To retreat was impossible .  `` Where could you possibly hear it , Mr. Knightley ?  It would not have been the awkwardness of a moment , it would have been rather a pleasure , previous to the suspicions of this very day ; she could have talked to him of Harriet , and the three-quarters of a mile would have seemed but one .  She was in need of a little interval for recollection . ''  The difference which Randalls , Randalls alone makes in your goings-on , is very great . ''  Lady Russell and Anne paid their compliments to them once , when Anne could not but feel that Uppercross was already quite alive again .  She had hurried on before her guests to prepare her father for their appearance , and was beyond the reach of Mr. Weston 's hint .  `` I have known it these four months .  Their arrival seemed to afford him real satisfaction , and their comfort to be an object of real solicitude to him .  and that we were most particularly asked to meet Lady Dalrymple and her daughter , and Mr Elliot , and all the principal family connexions , on purpose to be introduced to them ?  `` I can not help wondering at your knowing so little of Emma as to say any such thing .  Does Elinor expect him already ? ''  `` Very beautiful , indeed , '' replied Emma ; and she spoke so kindly , that he gratefully burst out ,  One could not be connected with better people .  Their concerns had been sunk under those of Uppercross ; and when Lady Russell reverted to their former hopes and fears , and spoke her satisfaction in the house in Camden Place , which had been taken , and her regret that Mrs Clay should still be with them , Anne would have been ashamed to have it known how much more she was thinking of Lyme and Louisa Musgrove , and all her acquaintance there ; how much more interesting to her was the home and the friendship of the Harvilles and Captain Benwick , than her own father 's house in Camden Place , or her own sister 's intimacy with Mrs Clay .  Others gathered round and joined them , weeping .  Her love made no answer ; and after slightly bowing to the ladies , began complaining of the weather .  But suddenly he thought , `` I was as bad as these men ; I myself put Zelia in prison , and would have treated her worse still , if I had not been prevented . ''  There might really have been a liking formerly , though convenience and accident had drawn him a different way ; and now that he could afford to please himself , he might mean to pay his addresses to her .  She had soon afterwards reason to believe that the beginning was already made , and could not but hope that the gipsy , though she had _told_ no fortune , might be proved to have made Harriet's. -- About a fortnight after the alarm , they came to a sufficient explanation , and quite undesignedly .  They were to meet Mrs. Ferrars ; but Elinor could not learn whether her sons were to be of the party .  When the little old woman had rolled him out , and dressed him up , and pinched his gingerbread shoes into shape , she put him in a pan ; then she put the pan in the oven and shut the door ; and she thought , `` Now I shall have a little boy of my own . ''  Of course , he can not be aware of the importance to me .  And take it altogether , now that we have been into most of the houses hereabouts and can judge , there is not one that we like better than this .  His colour increased ; and with his eyes fixed on the ground he only replied , `` You are too good . ''  `` My dear , you are too particular , '' said her husband .  `` There it is .  From a night of more sleep than she had expected , Marianne awoke the next morning to the same consciousness of misery in which she had closed her eyes .  `` Very soon , very soon , indeed ; that 's the worst of it .  `` I mean to go with you , Charles , for I am of no more use at home than you are .  The first part of their journey was performed in too melancholy a disposition to be otherwise than tedious and unpleasant .  Pray , what would become of us poor sailors ' wives , who often want to be conveyed to one port or another , after our husbands , if everybody had your feelings ? ''  He was silent .  He was good to look upon , for he had fair hair and a ruddy skin ; and he was very strong and brave and modest .  Harriet 's cheerful look and manner established hers : she came back , not to think of Mr. Martin , but to talk of Mr. Elton .  The doors of the two rooms were just opposite each other .  On THAT head , therefore , it was not for her to oppose her mother 's intention of removing into Devonshire .  This , and Marianne 's blushing , gave new suspicions to Edward .  Selina is no fine lady , I assure you .  Nay , most likely they are married already , for I do not know what they should wait for . ''  .  returned Elinor in some confusion ; `` indeed , Marianne , I have nothing to tell . ''  They are not far off .  Now , according to my idea of Mrs. Churchill , it would be most natural , that while she makes no sacrifice for the comfort of the husband , to whom she owes every thing , while she exercises incessant caprice towards _him_ , she should frequently be governed by the nephew , to whom she owes nothing at all . ''  Mr. Elton was to take the drawing to London , chuse the frame , and give the directions ; and Emma thought she could so pack it as to ensure its safety without much incommoding him , while he seemed mostly fearful of not being incommoded enough .  `` What do you mean ? ''  `` Certainly , if you wish it ; -- but you are not going to walk to Highbury alone ? ''  cried Little Joe , into whose head an idea had just popped .  `` Well , Marianne , '' said Elinor , as soon as he had left them , `` for ONE morning I think you have done pretty well .  He must have all Edward 's virtues , and his person and manners must ornament his goodness with every possible charm . ''  `` I 'm glad they are big and thick .  A sensible man , and he had looked like a very sensible man , why should it be an object to him ?  `` A new neighbour for us all , Miss Woodhouse ! ''  There go you and your riddle-book one of these days . ''  She only roused herself from the broodings of this restless agitation , to let Mrs Clay know that she had been seen with Mr Elliot three hours after his being supposed to be out of Bath , for having watched in vain for some intimation of the interview from the lady herself , she determined to mention it , and it seemed to her there was guilt in Mrs Clay 's face as she listened .  He longed greatly to know what the souls of the two women were like , and from their looks he could see only that they were gentle and honest .  What the hand dare seize the fire ?  `` I had not thought of that .  The triumph of seeing me so may be open to all the world .  Little things do not irritate him .  It would not be a bad thing for her to be very much in love with a proper object .  You know what he thinks of Cowper and Scott ; you are certain of his estimating their beauties as he ought , and you have received every assurance of his admiring Pope no more than is proper .  She was proved to have been universally mistaken ; and she had not quite done nothing -- for she had done mischief .  And I need not bring the whole family , you know . ''  Miss Bates was very chatty and good-humoured , as she always is , though she speaks rather too quick .  `` Caw , caw , caw ! ''  Mrs. Bates , Mrs. Perry , Mrs. Goddard and others , were a good deal behind-hand in knowledge of the world , but she would soon shew them how every thing ought to be arranged .  There was no denying that those brothers had penetration .  Churchill . ''  Immediately the Crayfish was sent for .  Had I died , -- in what peculiar misery should I have left you , my nurse , my friend , my sister ! -- You , who had seen all the fretful selfishness of my latter days ; who had known all the murmurings of my heart ! -- How should I have lived in YOUR remembrance ! -- My mother too !  `` She must be very lively , and have hazle eyes .  `` Hum '' -- said Mrs. Ferrars -- '' very pretty , '' -- and without regarding them at all , returned them to her daughter .  At present , believe me , I have no need of your services , being in cash again .  The deception could not continue after this ; and an explanation immediately took place , by which both gained considerable amusement for the moment , without any material loss of happiness to either , for Mrs. Jennings only exchanged one form of delight for another , and still without forfeiting her expectation of the first .  Mr Elliot appeared to think that he ( Sir Walter ) was looking exactly as he had done when they last parted ; '' but Sir Walter had `` not been able to return the compliment entirely , which had embarrassed him .  `` Well -- if you advise it. -- But ( with a smile ) if Colonel Campbell should have employed a careless friend , and if it should prove to have an indifferent tone -- what shall I say ?  Now do not you feel that you had ?  `` It 's too bad to waste such a fine fish , '' said Buster thoughtfully .  My visits to Mrs. Smith are never repeated within the twelvemonth . ''  She and the Harvilles came on Tuesday very safely , and in the evening we went to ask her how she did , when we were rather surprised not to find Captain Benwick of the party , for he had been invited as well as the Harvilles ; and what do you think was the reason ?  `` And how did you think Miss Fairfax looking ? ''  They settled in town , received very liberal assistance from Mrs. Ferrars , were on the best terms imaginable with the Dashwoods ; and setting aside the jealousies and ill-will continually subsisting between Fanny and Lucy , in which their husbands of course took a part , as well as the frequent domestic disagreements between Robert and Lucy themselves , nothing could exceed the harmony in which they all lived together .  said Sir Walter .  The Chamberlain went out and asked all the great lords and ladies and pages where the Nightingale could be found , but not one of them had ever heard of him .  said Margery .  The conversation was here interrupted .  When they had gone , leaving the poor Camel half killed , the little Jackal came dancing back from somewhere or other .  They were evidently in excellent spirits , and she was soon to listen to the causes .  Keep your raptures for Harriet 's face .  he started for the Green Forest as fast as his legs could take him , and this was very fast indeed , let me tell you .  That his repentance of misconduct , which thus brought its own punishment , was sincere , need not be doubted ; -- nor that he long thought of Colonel Brandon with envy , and of Marianne with regret .  Elinor stopped him with a reproof .  Selina has entirely given up music -- never touches the instrument -- though she played sweetly .  `` He must wish her good night ; he was going ; he should get home as fast as he could . ''  I never heard any county but Surry called so . ''  Anne found herself by this time growing so much more hardened to being in Captain Wentworth 's company than she had at first imagined could ever be , that the sitting down to the same table with him now , and the interchange of the common civilities attending on it ( they never got beyond ) , was become a mere nothing .  Sir John Middleton was a good looking man about forty .  Emma understood him ; and as soon as she could recover from the flutter of pleasure , excited by such tender consideration , replied ,  My uncle has been too good for me to encroach. -- I must still add to this long letter .  The lane made a slight bend ; and when that bend was passed , Mr. Elton was immediately in sight ; and so near as to give Emma time only to say farther ,  .  `` Who told you that Mr. Ferrars was married , Thomas ? ''  `` Well !  It was quite a chance , he said , that he had not gone round by Randalls .  My business was to declare myself a scoundrel , and whether I did it with a bow or a bluster was of little importance. -- 'I am ruined for ever in their opinion -- ' said I to myself -- 'I am shut out for ever from their society , they already think me an unprincipled fellow , this letter will only make them think me a blackguard one . '  He had been detained by a temporary increase of illness in her ; a nervous seizure , which had lasted some hours -- and he had quite given up every thought of coming , till very late ; -- and had he known how hot a ride he should have , and how late , with all his hurry , he must be , he believed he should not have come at all .  `` They walked , I conclude .  `` Such , '' said Colonel Brandon , after a pause , `` has been the unhappy resemblance between the fate of mother and daughter !  Sorra a know she knowed Awhere she was that day ; Says she , `` I 'm biled an ' ate up , shure An ' what 'll be to pay ? ''  But there is one comfort , my dear Miss Marianne ; he is not the only young man in the world worth having ; and with your pretty face you will never want admirers .  The heir presumptive , the very William Walter Elliot , Esq. , whose rights had been so generously supported by her father , had disappointed her .  I always preferred the church , as I still do .  What I said just now , meant nothing .  They reached town by three o'clock the third day , glad to be released , after such a journey , from the confinement of a carriage , and ready to enjoy all the luxury of a good fire .  The plan had reached this point , when Anne , coming quietly down from Louisa 's room , could not but hear what followed , for the parlour door was open .  Such kindness as fell to the share of nobody but me ! -- No pride , no hauteur , and your sister just the same -- all sweetness and affability ! ''  You see how delightfully she writes .  A week had not passed since Miss Hawkins 's name was first mentioned in Highbury , before she was , by some means or other , discovered to have every recommendation of person and mind ; to be handsome , elegant , highly accomplished , and perfectly amiable : and when Mr. Elton himself arrived to triumph in his happy prospects , and circulate the fame of her merits , there was very little more for him to do , than to tell her Christian name , and say whose music she principally played .  Colonel , I do not know what you and I shall do without the Miss Dashwoods ; '' -- was Mrs. Jennings 's address to him when he first called on her , after their leaving her was settled -- '' for they are quite resolved upon going home from the Palmers ; -- and how forlorn we shall be , when I come back ! -- Lord !  `` For shame , Emma !  `` I must not dwell upon it , '' said she. -- '' I must not think of it .  She hesitated ; she knew not what to do .  The morning hours of the Cottage were always later than those of the other house , and on the morrow the difference was so great that Mary and Anne were not more than beginning breakfast when Charles came in to say that they were just setting off , that he was come for his dogs , that his sisters were following with Captain Wentworth ; his sisters meaning to visit Mary and the child , and Captain Wentworth proposing also to wait on her for a few minutes if not inconvenient ; and though Charles had answered for the child 's being in no such state as could make it inconvenient , Captain Wentworth would not be satisfied without his running on to give notice .  `` Certainly , '' he replied , with a sneer -- '' I came into Devonshire with no other view . ''  `` Yes , '' said John Knightley , `` and I think we shall have a good deal of it . ''  The frightened fish Little Joe chased out of the little pools up above swam down the Laughing Brook , because , you know , Little Joe was behind them , and there was nowhere else for them to go .  It would be an excellent match , for HE was rich , and SHE was handsome .  `` Perhaps , Miss Marianne , '' cried Lucy , eager to take some revenge on her , `` you think young men never stand upon engagements , if they have no mind to keep them , little as well as great . ''  She could not immediately have uttered another sentence ; her heart was too full , her breath too much oppressed .  `` I do not think it will , '' stopping to look once more at all the outward wretchedness of the place , and recall the still greater within .  Edward , who had till then looked any where , rather than at her , saw her hurry away , and perhaps saw -- or even heard , her emotion ; for immediately afterwards he fell into a reverie , which no remarks , no inquiries , no affectionate address of Mrs. Dashwood could penetrate , and at last , without saying a word , quitted the room , and walked out towards the village -- leaving the others in the greatest astonishment and perplexity on a change in his situation , so wonderful and so sudden ; -- a perplexity which they had no means of lessening but by their own conjectures .  You have every body dearest to you always at hand , I , probably , never shall again ; and therefore till I have outlived all my affections , a post-office , I think , must always have power to draw me out , in worse weather than to-day . ''  There is something about Frederick more to our taste . ''  `` It was necessary to my own pride .  [ Sense and Sensibility by Jane Austen 1811 ]  Charles , ring and order a chair .  Colonel Brandon , unfortunately for himself , had no such encouragement to think only of Marianne , and in conversing with Elinor he found the greatest consolation for the indifference of her sister .  Little Brother Rabbit crouched down and listened to what they were saying .  As an old friend , you will allow me to hope , Miss Fairfax , that ten years hence you may have as many concentrated objects as I have . ''  `` Well -- I am so glad you do .  convinced her that he had nothing more to say or surmise about Hartfield .  But as the clock struck two , the little creatures whisked away out of the window , and left the room all as it was before .  She felt for Harriet , with pain and with contrition ; but no flight of generosity run mad , opposing all that could be probable or reasonable , entered her brain .  How quick come the reasons for approving what we like !  `` I was needing a chicken ! ''  After a little more discourse in praise of gruel , with some wondering at its not being taken every evening by every body , he proceeded to say , with an air of grave reflection ,  The assistance he thought of , I dare say , was only such as might be reasonably expected of you ; for instance , such as looking out for a comfortable small house for them , helping them to move their things , and sending them presents of fish and game , and so forth , whenever they are in season .  His own two thousand pounds she protested should be his all ; she would never see him again ; and so far would she be from affording him the smallest assistance , that if he were to enter into any profession with a view of better support , she would do all in her power to prevent him advancing in it . ''  THE LITTLE HALF-CHICK There was once upon a time a Spanish Hen , who hatched out some nice little chickens .  A carriage was heard .  And when they saw how much money had come from the orchard , they suddenly understood what the wise father had meant when he said , `` There is gold hidden in the orchard ; dig for it . ''  Emma was quite at a loss .  I can not descend to be tricked out of assurances , that are not really wanted . ''  I certainly have been misunderstanding you , if you feel in doubt as to the _purport_ of your answer .  `` I do not know .  He heard the sweet voices of happy little singers , and they were good to hear .  FINIS  He had misinterpreted the feelings which had kept her face averted , and her tongue motionless .  I heard a good deal of Colonel Campbell 's taste at Weymouth ; and the softness of the upper notes I am sure is exactly what he and _all_ _that_ _party_ would particularly prize .  She could not respect his eye , but his love and his complaisance were unexceptionable .  Of course I have not transcribed beyond the first eight lines . ''  `` Oh !  Marianne had already sent to say , that she should eat nothing more .  alas !  I know , indeed , that he is so , and , as such , wish him well .  `` Huh ! ''  Pray be so good as to mention to the other gentlemen that we hope to see your whole party this evening .  She hoped no one could have said to her , `` How could you be so unfeeling to your father ? -- I must , I will tell you truths while I can . ''  Could he have thought himself encouraged , his looks and language at parting would have been different. -- Still , however , I must be on my guard .  They were , of course , very anxious to see a person on whom so much of their comfort at Barton must depend ; and the elegance of her appearance was favourable to their wishes .  I shall not lose you so soon , and Edward will have greater opportunity of improving that natural taste for your favourite pursuit which must be so indispensably necessary to your future felicity .  `` Would I ! ''  Women of that class have great opportunities , and if they are intelligent may be well worth listening to .  He threw up his head to listen , and somehow , he never did know just how , the handle of the pail slipped back over his ears and caught there .  So sang a little clod of clay , Trodden with the cattle 's feet , But a pebble of the brook Warbled out these metres meet : `` Love seeketh only Self to please , To bind another to its delight , Joys in another 's loss of ease , And builds a hell in heaven 's despite . ''  Some change of countenance was necessary for each gentleman as they walked into Mrs. Weston 's drawing-room ; -- Mr. Elton must compose his joyous looks , and Mr. John Knightley disperse his ill-humour .  On what wings dare he aspire ?  `` We can not suppose , '' said Emma , smiling , `` that Mr. Elton would hesitate to assure you of there being a _very_ musical society in Highbury ; and I hope you will not find he has outstepped the truth more than may be pardoned , in consideration of the motive . ''  `` Ay , you may abuse me as you please , '' said the good-natured old lady , `` you have taken Charlotte off my hands , and can not give her back again .  I shall speak to Mr. E. The man who fetches our letters every morning ( one of our men , I forget his name ) shall inquire for yours too and bring them to you .  So they ground and ground ; and in the middle of the night , being weary , they asked the sea-king if he had not got salt enough .  Anne found in Mrs Smith the good sense and agreeable manners which she had almost ventured to depend on , and a disposition to converse and be cheerful beyond her expectation .  Henceforward I know nothing of the matter .  Very well ; I shall not attempt to deny Emma 's being pretty . ''  said the Brahmin .  `` I certainly do forget to think of _her_ , '' said Emma , `` as having ever been any thing but my friend and my dearest friend . ''  They never came back any more , but from that day they gave the shoemaker and his wife good luck , so that they never needed any more help .  Robert of Sicily was a jester , and no one knew him for the king .  CHAPTER 45  He would do any good to her , or her family ; but -- ''  `` Yes , that of course . ''  He can not hoppity-kick any more , but he turns slowly round when the wind blows , and keeps his head toward it , to hear what it says .  The harp was beautiful to look upon , mighty in size , made of rare wood , and ornamented with gold and jewels ; and it had wonderful music in its strings , which only the Dagda could call out .  `` Yes , upon my word , very considerable .  `` Why did you shoulder your lance ? ''  It was enough to secure his good opinion ; for to be unaffected was all that a pretty girl could want to make her mind as captivating as her person .  She wanted her to be more known .  As she joined him , Captain Harville 's countenance re-assumed the serious , thoughtful expression which seemed its natural character .  `` Oh ! ''  Mrs Harville must be an odd mother to part with them so long .  The result of his reverie was , `` No , Emma , I do not think the extent of my admiration for her will ever take me by surprize. -- I never had a thought of her in that way , I assure you . ''  She wanted to be alone .  `` They have borne more than our conduct. -- Do not , my dearest Elinor , let your kindness defend what I know your judgment must censure .  The person is not tall enough for him , and has not his air . ''  `` How much I am obliged to you , '' said he , `` for telling me to come to-day ! -- If it had not been for you , I should certainly have lost all the happiness of this party .  It was settled that they should go to Box Hill .  Who is your party ? ''  One can not creep upon a journey ; one can not help getting on faster than one has planned ; and the pleasure of coming in upon one 's friends before the look-out begins , is worth a great deal more than any little exertion it needs . ''  `` Oh !  Then every man , of every clime , That prays in his distress , Prays to the human form divine : Love , Mercy , Pity , Peace .  And when they heard that Music of Mirth , the young warriors of the Fomorians began to laugh ; they laughed till the cups fell from their grasp , and the spears dropped from their hands , while the wine flowed from the broken bowls ; they laughed until their limbs were helpless with excess of glee .  Marianne slowly continued --  `` You may well class the delight , the honour , and the comfort of such a situation together , '' said Jane , `` they are pretty sure to be equal ; however , I am very serious in not wishing any thing to be attempted at present for me .  And I am so glad your sister is going to be well married !  My illness , I well knew , had been entirely brought on by myself by such negligence of my own health , as I had felt even at the time to be wrong .  To understand , thoroughly understand her own heart , was the first endeavour .  well , that must be infinitely provoking !  -- Even Mr. Weston shook his head , and looked solemn , and said , `` Ah !  I do not understand it .  Over and over again he heard the sweet voices of the choirs chant the Latin words he had heard long ago : _He hath put down the mighty from their seat , and hath exalted them of low degree_ .  He did not mean to say that there were no pretty women , but the number of the plain was out of all proportion .  Little Lamb , God bless thee !  If not wise or refined herself , she would have connected him with those who were ; but Miss Hawkins , it might be fairly supposed from her easy conceit , had been the best of her own set .  Ma'am , '' addressing her , `` do you hear what Miss Woodhouse is so obliging to say about Jane 's handwriting ? ''  We shall know more about them all , in half an hour , from you , than Miss Fairfax would have vouchsafed in half a year . ''  His sanguine temper , and fearlessness of mind , operated very differently on her .  He is one of the dullest young men that ever lived .  I say , Jane , what a perfect character you and I should make , if we could be shaken together .  Miss Woodhouse , how ungrateful I have been ! ''  Far below lay the earth , brown , dry , and desolate , from drought .  I certainly get better and better. -- Now for it . ''  She was remarkably quick in the discovery of attachments , and had enjoyed the advantage of raising the blushes and the vanity of many a young lady by insinuations of her power over such a young man ; and this kind of discernment enabled her soon after her arrival at Barton decisively to pronounce that Colonel Brandon was very much in love with Marianne Dashwood .  This has always been your doctrine , I am sure . ''  I am come here to bespeak Fanny a seal .  Anne was too much engaged with Lady Russell to be often walking herself ; but it so happened that one morning , about a week or ten days after the Croft 's arrival , it suited her best to leave her friend , or her friend 's carriage , in the lower part of the town , and return alone to Camden Place , and in walking up Milsom Street she had the good fortune to meet with the Admiral .  Mr. Frank Churchill , indeed !  Her manners had all the elegance which her husband 's wanted .  When your father and mother moved to Norland , though the furniture of Stanhill was sold , all the china , plate , and linen was saved , and is now left to your mother .  It may be proper to conceal their engagement ( if they ARE engaged ) from Mrs. Smith -- and if that is the case , it must be highly expedient for Willoughby to be but little in Devonshire at present .  Mrs. Elton left them no choice .  The children are all hanging about her already , as if she was an old acquaintance .  All this is much , very much in favour of their happiness ; more than perhaps -- ''  And there was silence between them for a little while .  The difficulty was great of driving his strange insensibility towards Harriet , from her mind , while he not only sat at her elbow , but was continually obtruding his happy countenance on her notice , and solicitously addressing her upon every occasion .  Mrs. Jennings was very warm in her praise of Edward 's conduct , but only Elinor and Marianne understood its true merit .  And when Easter Day came , never had there been so lovely , so holy a day : in the great churches , filled with flowers , and sweet with incense , the kneeling people listened to the choirs singing , and it was like the voices of angels ; their prayers were more earnest than ever before , their praise more glad ; there was something heavenly in Rome .  Of all houses in the kingdom Mrs. Bragge 's is the one I would most wish to see you in . ''  `` Ah !  Presently one little weak child-voice called out , -- `` It 's the nicest Christmas tree I ever saw ! ''  `` I would not wish to do any thing mean , '' he replied .  We want to come in ! ''  Harriet 's sweet easy temper will not mind it . ''  He was quite delighted .  all alone !  I only stood at the door , and heard what I could .  She had the advantage of him in the preparation of the last few moments .  Emma thought with pleasure of some change of subject .  `` It is very unpleasant , having such connexions !  She had not advanced many yards from Mrs. Goddard 's door , when she was met by Mr. Elton himself , evidently coming towards it , and as they walked on slowly together in conversation about the invalid -- of whom he , on the rumour of considerable illness , had been going to inquire , that he might carry some report of her to Hartfield -- they were overtaken by Mr. John Knightley returning from the daily visit to Donwell , with his two eldest boys , whose healthy , glowing faces shewed all the benefit of a country run , and seemed to ensure a quick despatch of the roast mutton and rice pudding they were hastening home for .  He could not see her in a situation of such danger , without trying to preserve her .  The Pope looked at the poor jester with pity , but the Emperor of Allemaine turned to the King of Sicily , and said , `` Is it not rather dangerous , brother , to keep a madman as jester ? ''  NOW he felt astonished himself that he had never yet been to the place .  It is the statue of a woman named Margaret .  `` The gulls !  run !  as fast as you can !  One day when she came home the little Larks were much frightened .  The fourth said that he considered the tail greatly improved .  In Edward -- she knew not what she saw , nor what she wished to see ; -- happy or unhappy , -- nothing pleased her ; she turned away her head from every sketch of him .  On this article I can fully acquit him .  Even pleasure , you know , is fatiguing -- and I can not say that any of them seemed very much to have enjoyed it .  He had been lucky in his profession ; but spending freely , what had come freely , had realized nothing .  But no one guessed that these were really Giant-Maidens who bore a grudge against all of the race of Odin .  CHAPTER 21  Whatever they may have been , however , she may now , and hereafter doubtless WILL turn with gratitude towards her own condition , when she compares it with that of my poor Eliza , when she considers the wretched and hopeless situation of this poor girl , and pictures her to herself , with an affection for him so strong , still as strong as her own , and with a mind tormented by self-reproach , which must attend her through life .  `` Oh , I do n't know _why_ , '' said the Camel slowly , `` but I always roll over after dinner ! ''  Sir Walter , without hesitation , declared the Admiral to be the best-looking sailor he had ever met with , and went so far as to say , that if his own man might have had the arranging of his hair , he should not be ashamed of being seen with him any where ; and the Admiral , with sympathetic cordiality , observed to his wife as they drove back through the park , `` I thought we should soon come to a deal , my dear , in spite of what they told us at Taunton .  `` But Mrs. John Dashwood would not much approve of Edward 's going into orders . ''  He spoke to her , and then turned away .  He never even believed himself to see her equal .  Can not we be gone to-morrow ? ''  At the park she laughed at the colonel , and in the cottage at Marianne .  Some more of the Careys came to dinner , and they had the pleasure of sitting down nearly twenty to table , which Sir John observed with great contentment .  Mr. Woodhouse was almost as glad to see him now , as he would have been sorry to see him before .  .  But he is not the only gentleman you have been lately used to .  There are people , who the more you do for them , the less they will do for themselves .  Might not the evening end in a dance ?  `` That is as formidable an image as you could present , Harriet ; and if I thought I should ever be like Miss Bates !  To restrain him as much as might be , by her own manners , she was immediately preparing to speak with exquisite calmness and gravity of the weather and the night ; but scarcely had she begun , scarcely had they passed the sweep-gate and joined the other carriage , than she found her subject cut up -- her hand seized -- her attention demanded , and Mr. Elton actually making violent love to her : availing himself of the precious opportunity , declaring sentiments which must be already well known , hoping -- fearing -- adoring -- ready to die if she refused him ; but flattering himself that his ardent attachment and unequalled love and unexampled passion could not fail of having some effect , and in short , very much resolved on being seriously accepted as soon as possible .  `` You should have gone to Cromer , my dear , if you went anywhere. -- Perry was a week at Cromer once , and he holds it to be the best of all the sea-bathing places .  `` Your sincere well-wisher , friend , and sister , `` LUCY FERRARS .  Anne had not wanted this visit to Uppercross , to learn that a removal from one set of people to another , though at a distance of only three miles , will often include a total change of conversation , opinion , and idea .  `` I will answer for it , that mine thinks herself full as clever , and would spurn any body 's assistance . ''  `` I am most happy to hear it -- but only Jane Fairfax one knows to be so very accomplished and superior ! -- and exactly Emma 's age . ''  Had not Elinor , in the sad countenance of her sister , seen a check to all mirth , she could have been entertained by Mrs. Jennings 's endeavours to cure a disappointment in love , by a variety of sweetmeats and olives , and a good fire .  `` That is exactly what I think of him , '' cried Marianne .  I could hardly keep my seat .  Three thousand pounds !  When he had yelled the first time , he had supposed that it was one of the young cattle who live in the Old Pasture all summer , but when he saw Buster , he was just as badly frightened as Buster himself .  `` I have never mentioned it to her , but of course she must . ''  `` No , no , let us play , for it is yet day , And we can not go to sleep ; Besides , in the sky the little birds fly , And the hills are all covered with sheep . ''  cried Emma ; `` at that rate , what will become of her ? ''  `` If the impertinent remarks of Mrs. Jennings are to be the proof of impropriety in conduct , we are all offending every moment of our lives .  He sends us a sack every year ; and certainly there never was such a keeping apple anywhere as one of his trees -- I believe there is two of them .  Then Epaminondas ' Mammy put on her bonnet and her shawl and took a basket in her hand and went away to see Auntie .  `` Not at all , not at all ; there is not an oath or a murmur from beginning to end . ''  `` Your expenses both in town and country must certainly be considerable ; but your income is a large one . ''  They were obliged to move .  You know how it is .  why yourselves , and the Careys , and Whitakers to be sure. -- What !  I 'll try the next pool . ''  I shall soon have done .  This was against her ; but on the other hand , he spent so much of his time at Uppercross , that in removing thence she might be considered rather as leaving him behind , than as going towards him ; and , upon the whole , she believed she must , on this interesting question , be the gainer , almost as certainly as in her change of domestic society , in leaving poor Mary for Lady Russell .  You had better look about you , and ascertain what you do , and what you mean to do . ''  And , after all , what is it you suspect him of ? ''  Could not be a better time , Sir Walter , for having a choice of tenants , very responsible tenants .  After a mutual silence of some minutes , Harriet thus began again --  It was now above a week since John Dashwood had called in Berkeley Street , and as since that time no notice had been taken by them of his wife 's indisposition , beyond one verbal enquiry , Elinor began to feel it necessary to pay her a visit. -- This was an obligation , however , which not only opposed her own inclination , but which had not the assistance of any encouragement from her companions .  It is a reasonable and laudable pride which resists such malevolence . ''  `` Well , '' said Mrs. Weston , smiling , `` you give him credit for more simple , disinterested benevolence in this instance than I do ; for while Miss Bates was speaking , a suspicion darted into my head , and I have never been able to get it out again .  But that he was for ever inconsolable , that he fled from society , or contracted an habitual gloom of temper , or died of a broken heart , must not be depended on -- for he did neither .  `` Quite wrong , my dear aunt ; there is no likeness at all . ''  It was settled that there should be a dance in the evening , and that every body should be extremely merry all day long .  She will feel her own sufferings to be nothing .  Considering the very particular friendship between her and Mrs. Dixon , you could hardly have expected her to be excused from accompanying Colonel and Mrs .  Conceive what the events of a week have done in that family !  CHAPTER XVI  `` Why have I never heard him sing ? ''  Their tendency is gross and illiberal ; and if their construction could ever be deemed clever , time has long ago destroyed all its ingenuity . ''  The Crofts knew quite as many people in Bath as they wished for , and considered their intercourse with the Elliots as a mere matter of form , and not in the least likely to afford them any pleasure .  It is too bad that such a fine young fellow as Little Joe should spoil a good disposition by such selfish heedlessness .  Elinor would not contend , and only replied , `` Whoever may have been so detestably your enemy , let them be cheated of their malignant triumph , my dear sister , by seeing how nobly the consciousness of your own innocence and good intentions supports your spirits .  He had been absent only two Sundays , and when they parted , had left her interested , even to the height of his wishes , in his prospect of soon quitting his present curacy , and obtaining that of Uppercross instead .  And at the very end rode Robert , the jester .  I have seen a great many lists of her drawing-up at various times of books that she meant to read regularly through -- and very good lists they were -- very well chosen , and very neatly arranged -- sometimes alphabetically , and sometimes by some other rule .  There had been a time , when of all the large party now filling the drawing-room at Uppercross , they would have found it most difficult to cease to speak to one another .  I should hold myself guilty of greater impropriety in accepting a horse from my brother , than from Willoughby .  His marriage must still be a distant good ; -- at least , I am afraid it can not take place very soon. -- ''  Had he feigned a regard for her which he did not feel ?  `To do the best for himself , ' passed as a duty . ''  She was awake the whole night , and she wept the greatest part of it .  IV LITTLE JOE OTTER SUPPLIES BUSTER BEAR WITH A BREAKFAST Getting even just for spite Does n't always pay .  She was immediately up , and wanting to quit the table ; but so many were also moving , that she could not get away ; and Mr. Knightley thought he saw another collection of letters anxiously pushed towards her , and resolutely swept away by her unexamined .  Mrs. Ferrars , with the utmost liberality , will come forward , and settle on him a thousand a year , if the match takes place .  While they were thus comfortably occupied , Mr. Woodhouse was enjoying a full flow of happy regrets and fearful affection with his daughter .  And he pounced on them , killed them , and gobbled them up .  Either because he did not dance himself , or because the plan had been formed without his being consulted , he seemed resolved that it should not interest him , determined against its exciting any present curiosity , or affording him any future amusement .  `` What I thought to be a precious dewdrop is only a worthless diamond .  `` By all means , my dear , '' cried Mrs Musgrove , `` go home directly , and take care of yourself , that you may be fit for the evening .  `` Of course it 's true ! ''  He saw the huge pile of figs under the big fig tree .  You are very kind to bring me these interesting particulars .  I think it would be much better if they would come in one afternoon next summer , and take their tea with us -- take us in their afternoon walk ; which they might do , as our hours are so reasonable , and yet get home without being out in the damp of the evening .  I dried my tears , and armed my fears With ten-thousand shields and spears .  He had always a home with us whenever he chose it ; he was always welcome ; he was like a brother .  When I have made up my mind , I have made it ; and Henrietta seemed entirely to have made up hers to call at Winthrop to-day ; and yet , she was as near giving it up , out of nonsensical complaisance ! ''  I am going to London , to spend a few days with John and Isabella .  Ferrars . ''  Miss Woodhouse , what do you think has happened ! ''  You will have my sketches , some time or other , to look at -- or my tour to read -- or my poem .  `` There is no saying , indeed , '' replied Harriet rather solemnly .  Such a name ! ''  continued Mrs. Elton ; `` Knightley himself ! -- Was not it lucky ? -- for , not being within when he called the other day , I had never seen him before ; and of course , as so particular a friend of Mr. E. 's , I had a great curiosity .  Till you chose to turn her into a friend , her mind had no distaste for her own set , nor any ambition beyond it .  It was a great satisfaction to Elinor that Mrs. Jennings , by being much engaged in her own room , could see little of what was passing .  You must have heard every thing to be sure .  said she with all her accustomary complacency .  Elinor wished that the same forbearance could have extended towards herself , but that was impossible , and she was obliged to listen day after day to the indignation of them all .  But not so easily did Elinor recover from the alarm into which it had thrown her .  THE BLOSSOM Merry , merry sparrow !  So that , in fact , you see , if people do but know how to set about it , every comfort may be as well enjoyed in a cottage as in the most spacious dwelling . ''  But I thought of her , I believe , every moment of the day .  Nobody could tell .  `` Pray , Emma , '' said he , `` may I ask in what lay the great amusement , the poignant sting of the last word given to you and Miss Fairfax ?  He would be always coming over .  Often as she had wished for and ordered it , she had never been able to get any thing tolerable .  `` Luck often comes when one is n't looking for it ! ''  Emma doubted the truth of this sentiment .  `` Marianne has not shyness to excuse any inattention of hers , '' said Elinor .  To spare Henrietta from agitation seemed the governing principle .  Elinor took no notice of this ; and directing her attention to their visitor , endeavoured to support something like discourse with him , by talking of their present residence , its conveniences , & c. extorting from him occasional questions and remarks .  He was reckoned very handsome ; his person much admired in general , though not by her , there being a want of elegance of feature which she could not dispense with : -- but the girl who could be gratified by a Robert Martin 's riding about the country to get walnuts for her might very well be conquered by Mr. Elton 's admiration .  Because Old Mr. Toad insists that I must write a book about his adventures , and Old Mr. Toad is such a good friend of all of us that I am going to do it .  Mrs. Elton had undoubtedly the advantage , at this time , in vanity completely gratified ; for though she had intended to begin with Frank Churchill , she could not lose by the change .  Amongst them were Sir John and Lady Middleton and Mrs. Jennings , but there were two others , a gentleman and lady , who were quite unknown to her .  I love him already . ''  XV BUSTER BEAR IS A FALLEN HERO A fallen hero is some one to whom every one has looked up as very brave and then proves to be less brave than he was supposed to be .  `` Sire , '' he said , making a low bow , `` permit your humble servant to offer you greeting . ''  She was feeling too much ; but at last Emma collected from her enough to understand the sort of meeting , and the sort of pain it was creating .  An injunction of secresy had been among Mr. Weston 's parting words .  `` Quite the contrary , '' replied Elinor , looking expressively at Marianne .  It is on her account that attention to Randalls is doubly due , and she must doubly feel the omission .  `` My love I would ask them with all my heart , if it was in my power .  Then he hurried down to the next little pool and did the same thing .  She could have said more on the subject ; for she had in fact so high an opinion of the Crofts , and considered her father so very fortunate in his tenants , felt the parish to be so sure of a good example , and the poor of the best attention and relief , that however sorry and ashamed for the necessity of the removal , she could not but in conscience feel that they were gone who deserved not to stay , and that Kellynch Hall had passed into better hands than its owners ' .  `` Now , how would she speak of him ? ''  Nothing wanting .  They were interrupted by the servant 's coming in to announce the carriage being at the door ; and Mrs. Jennings immediately preparing to go , said , --  What Edward felt , as he could not say it himself , it can not be expected that any one else should say for him .  He knew every pool in the Laughing Brook where the trout love to hide , did Farmer Brown 's boy , and it was just the kind of a morning when the trout should be hungry .  hide yourselves away ! ''  This circumstance was a growing attachment between her eldest girl and the brother of Mrs. John Dashwood , a gentleman-like and pleasing young man , who was introduced to their acquaintance soon after his sister 's establishment at Norland , and who had since spent the greatest part of his time there .  `` I wish you could persuade Mary not to be always fancying herself ill , '' was Charles 's language ; and , in an unhappy mood , thus spoke Mary : `` I do believe if Charles were to see me dying , he would not think there was anything the matter with me .  It had been a great disappointment to Mr Musgrove to find that no earlier day could be fixed , so impatient was he to shew his gratitude , by seeing Captain Wentworth under his own roof , and welcoming him to all that was strongest and best in his cellars .  This is brilliant indeed ! -- This is admirable ! -- Excellently contrived , upon my word .  That was all very true .  And suddenly a great light came into the hermit 's mind , and he saw how many ways there are of serving God .  The gipsies did not wait for the operations of justice ; they took themselves off in a hurry .  `` The Colonel is a ninny , my dear ; because he has two thousand a-year himself , he thinks that nobody else can marry on less .  said the king .  Mr. Weston must be between forty and fifty . ''  Her feelings altered towards Emma. -- Offended , probably , by the little encouragement which her proposals of intimacy met with , she drew back in her turn and gradually became much more cold and distant ; and though the effect was agreeable , the ill-will which produced it was necessarily increasing Emma 's dislike .  He was on foot , and after looking very respectfully at her , looked with most unfeigned satisfaction at her companion .  Mrs Smith said nothing .  They went in ; and while the sleek , well-tied parcels of `` Men 's Beavers '' and `` York Tan '' were bringing down and displaying on the counter , he said -- '' But I beg your pardon , Miss Woodhouse , you were speaking to me , you were saying something at the very moment of this burst of my _amor_ _patriae_ .  But , Anne , only conceive how extraordinary !  Mrs. Jennings and Elinor were of the number ; but Marianne , who knew that the Willoughbys were again in town , and had a constant dread of meeting them , chose rather to stay at home , than venture into so public a place .  Mr Shepherd laughed , as he knew he must , at this wit , and then added --  said Emma , highly amused. -- '' Mr .  I am sure you must have heard of her before .  `` And I am changed also ; for I am now very willing to grant you all Harriet 's good qualities .  He had just dismounted ; -- she could not be mistaken , -- it WAS Edward .  `` Oh !  `` I do not know .  `` Oh !  He will find an _addition_ to the society of Highbury when he comes again ; that is , if I may presume to call myself an addition .  I want you to call me something else , but I do not know what . ''  `` But , '' said David , `` who is this Philistine , that he should defy the armies of the living God ? ''  said the Camel .  The little City Mouse gnawed a hole in the bag and invited his friend to nibble for himself .  Mr. Dashwood was convinced .  But first of all , you must tell me the name of the young lady I am going to talk about .  The worn-out past was sunk in the freshness of what was coming ; and in the rapidity of half a moment 's thought , she hoped Mr. Elton would now be talked of no more .  Like other great men under reverses , '' he added , with a smile .  You do not think I could mean _you_ , or suppose Mr. Knightley to mean _you_ .  He was the only person in the world who could at that moment be forgiven for not being Willoughby ; the only one who could have gained a smile from her ; but she dispersed her tears to smile on HIM , and in her sister 's happiness forgot for a time her own disappointment .  dear , how beautiful these are !  `` Never in the world would I do such an ungrateful thing !  And that same night a mighty sea-king came up and slew Frode and plundered his city .  Mr. Elton was still talking , still engaged in some interesting detail ; and Emma experienced some disappointment when she found that he was only giving his fair companion an account of the yesterday 's party at his friend Cole 's , and that she was come in herself for the Stilton cheese , the north Wiltshire , the butter , the cellery , the beet-root , and all the dessert .  run !  Neither wine nor conversation was any thing to him ; and gladly did he move to those with whom he was always comfortable .  Both felt rather anxious to hear him speak again ; and after a few minutes silence , he said ,  `It is only Mrs. Cole , ' said I , `depend upon it .  It is a difference of opinion which does not admit of proof .  `` I should be puzzled to spend so large a fortune myself , '' said Mrs. Dashwood , `` if my children were all to be rich my help . ''  Anyway , that is what Little Joe told Billy Mink .  roared the Elephant .  My mother is delightfully well ; and Jane caught no cold last night .  That crime has been the origin of every lesser one , and of all his present discontents . ''  They have kept her ever since Deep within the lake , On a bed of flag-leaves , Watching till she wake .  `` So early in life -- at three-and-twenty -- a period when , if a man chuses a wife , he generally chuses ill. At three-and-twenty to have drawn such a prize !  `` Cleveland ! ''  `` Only four-and-twenty .  No , the young lady , to be sure .  Her character depends upon those she is with ; but in good hands she will turn out a valuable woman . ''  She goes into the warm bath to-morrow , and for the rest of the week , you know , we are engaged . ''  He listened in perfect silence .  There could be no doubt as to Miss Elliot .  `` When you have seen more of this country , I am afraid you will think you have overrated Hartfield .  She was ashamed of herself , quite ashamed of being so nervous , so overcome by such a trifle ; but so it was , and it required a long application of solitude and reflection to recover her .  Poor man ! -- it was at first a considerable shock to him , and he tried earnestly to dissuade her from it .  `` A house of her own ! -- But where is the advantage of a house of her own ?  It seemed to him that never in all his life had he wanted berries as he did now .  How would it all be ?  `` You are not quite so miserable , though , as when you first came .  Then she vanished .  `` Did not Colonel Brandon know of Sir John 's proposal to your mother before it was made ?  `` What do you mean ? ''  In what respect ?  They all looked their assent ; it seemed too awful a moment for speech .  How was she to bear the change ? -- It was true that her friend was going only half a mile from them ; but Emma was aware that great must be the difference between a Mrs. Weston , only half a mile from them , and a Miss Taylor in the house ; and with all her advantages , natural and domestic , she was now in great danger of suffering from intellectual solitude .  You will be delighted with them I am sure .  She regained the street -- happy in this , that though much had been forced on her against her will , though she had in fact heard the whole substance of Jane Fairfax 's letter , she had been able to escape the letter itself .  This she had been prepared for when she entered the house ; but meant , having once talked him handsomely over , to be no farther incommoded by any troublesome topic , and to wander at large amongst all the Mistresses and Misses of Highbury , and their card-parties .  Harriet behaved extremely well on the occasion , with great self-command .  `` They aimed at wounding more than Harriet , '' said he .  The invitation was general , and generally declined .  Where shall we see a better daughter , or a kinder sister , or a truer friend ?  He wanted to marry well , and having the arrogance to raise his eyes to her , pretended to be in love ; but she was perfectly easy as to his not suffering any disappointment that need be cared for .  But I mean , that I was right in submitting to her , and that if I had done otherwise , I should have suffered more in continuing the engagement than I did even in giving it up , because I should have suffered in my conscience .  To pacify Mary , and perhaps screen her own embarrassment , Anne did move quietly to the window .  She gave her an answer which marked her contempt , and instantly left the room , resolving that , whatever might be the inconvenience or expense of so sudden a removal , her beloved Elinor should not be exposed another week to such insinuations .  Her eyes , a deep grey , with dark eye-lashes and eyebrows , had never been denied their praise ; but the skin , which she had been used to cavil at , as wanting colour , had a clearness and delicacy which really needed no fuller bloom .  `Do not imagine , madam , ' she continued , `that I was taught wrong .  Before her removing from Norland , Elinor had painted a very pretty pair of screens for her sister-in-law , which being now just mounted and brought home , ornamented her present drawing room ; and these screens , catching the eye of John Dashwood on his following the other gentlemen into the room , were officiously handed by him to Colonel Brandon for his admiration .  `` Though with your usual anxiety for our happiness , '' said Elinor , `` you have been obviating every impediment to the present scheme which occurred to you , there is still one objection which , in my opinion , can not be so easily removed . ''  How could I look on without agony ?  I certainly will not persuade myself to feel more than I do .  This set the matter beyond a doubt .  When people come into a beautiful country of this sort , you know , Miss Woodhouse , one naturally wishes them to see as much as possible ; and Mr. Suckling is extremely fond of exploring .  Mr. Martin , I imagine , has his fortune entirely to make -- can not be at all beforehand with the world .  So King Frode sent messengers over the world to find for him two servants who would be strong enough to grind with the millstones , and after a long , long time his messengers found him two maid-servants , who were bigger and stronger than anyone in Denmark had ever seen .  She had but two friends in the world to add to his list , Lady Russell and Mrs Smith .  But how sad it is that he should not live at home with his father !  His face , his figure , his voice were exactly like Robert of Sicily ; no human being could have told the difference ; no one dreamed that he was not the king .  Woodhouse , who had already taken his little round in the highest part of the gardens , where no damps from the river were imagined even by him , stirred no more ; and his daughter resolved to remain with him , that Mrs. Weston might be persuaded away by her husband to the exercise and variety which her spirits seemed to need .  He tried to back out of the pail and could n't .  He knows that he is a very handsome young man , and a great favourite wherever he goes ; and from his general way of talking in unreserved moments , when there are only men present , I am convinced that he does not mean to throw himself away .  `` I am glad of it with all my heart ; but really you did not look it .  I shall persuade her if I can to go early to bed , for I am sure she wants rest . ''  Lady Dalrymple and Miss Carteret , escorted by Mr Elliot and Colonel Wallis , who had happened to arrive nearly at the same instant , advanced into the room .  A scheme , worthy of Mrs Wallis 's understanding , by all accounts ; but my sensible nurse Rooke sees the absurdity of it .  What his pursuits , his talents , and genius ? ''  `` Ah !  CHAPTER 13  It does not bear talking of . ''  Harriet listened submissively , and said `` it was very true -- it was just as Miss Woodhouse described -- it was not worth while to think about them -- and she would not think about them any longer '' but no change of subject could avail , and the next half-hour saw her as anxious and restless about the Eltons as before .  `` My dear Miss Elliot ! ''  Mr. Elton , I must beg leave to stop at your house , and ask your housekeeper for a bit of ribband or string , or any thing just to keep my boot on . ''  The Chamberlain did not want to be trampled upon , so he ran out and asked everybody in the palace about the Nightingale .  cried Billy Mink .  She avoided the looks of them all , could neither eat nor speak , and after some time , on her mother 's silently pressing her hand with tender compassion , her small degree of fortitude was quite overcome , she burst into tears and left the room .  asked the Fir .  Her heart was not so much at ease , nor her satisfaction in their amusements so pure .  Michaelmas came ; and now Anne 's heart must be in Kellynch again .  At the same time , however , it was a secret gratification to herself to have seen her cousin , and to know that the future owner of Kellynch was undoubtedly a gentleman , and had an air of good sense .  Having long had as much money as he could spend , nothing to wish for on the side of avarice or indulgence , he has been gradually learning to pin his happiness upon the consequence he is heir to .  And so , just as he was going away again , it came into my head , I am sure I do not know how I happened to think of it , but it came into my head to ask him if there was any news .  He stood perfectly still and listened with all his might .  `` Whatever you say is always right , '' cried Harriet , `` and therefore I suppose , and believe , and hope it must be so ; but otherwise I could not have imagined it .  `` Yes -- I imagined -- that is -- I did not -- ''  That nature had given it in feature could not be unseen by the young woman , nor could her higher powers of mind be unfelt by the parents .  Mr. Weston meanwhile , perfectly unsuspicious of the indignation he was exciting , happy and cheerful as usual , and with all the right of being principal talker , which a day spent anywhere from home confers , was making himself agreeable among the rest ; and having satisfied the inquiries of his wife as to his dinner , convincing her that none of all her careful directions to the servants had been forgotten , and spread abroad what public news he had heard , was proceeding to a family communication , which , though principally addressed to Mrs. Weston , he had not the smallest doubt of being highly interesting to every body in the room .  `` Not I , '' said the Duck .  CHAPTER 8  There is no power on earth or in heaven which can put me down from my seat ! ''  As such , however , they were treated by her with quiet civility ; and by her husband with as much kindness as he could feel towards anybody beyond himself , his wife , and their child .  We were very wrong before ; we will be cautious now. -- He is your superior , no doubt , and there do seem objections and obstacles of a very serious nature ; but yet , Harriet , more wonderful things have taken place , there have been matches of greater disparity .  THEL 'S Motto  She should put it off as long as she could ; '' but was not easy till she had talked Charles into driving her over on an early day , and was in a very animated , comfortable state of imaginary agitation , when she came back .  You make the best of it -- but after you have been a week at Hartfield , you are all of you different creatures ; you do not look like the same .  The horse kept his good pace , and by noon the towers of the castle stood out against the sky , much nearer and more beautiful .  I should like the work exceedingly , if she would allow me a share in it . ''  `` Oh , you did ; well , and how do they all do at their house ?  `` We know all about that .  `` Can you trust me with such flatterers ? -- Does my vain spirit ever tell me I am wrong ? ''  They were always perfectly agreed in the want of more money , and a strong inclination for a handsome present from his father ; but here , as on most topics , he had the superiority , for while Mary thought it a great shame that such a present was not made , he always contended for his father 's having many other uses for his money , and a right to spend it as he liked .  Dear me !  XX BUSTER BEAR CARRIES OFF THE PAIL OF FARMER BROWN 'S BOY The question is , did Buster Bear steal Farmer Brown 's boy 's pail ?  `` What have foolish green flies got to do with my -- I mean _our_ fish ? ''  The sister , Mrs Croft , had then been out of England , accompanying her husband on a foreign station , and her own sister , Mary , had been at school while it all occurred ; and never admitted by the pride of some , and the delicacy of others , to the smallest knowledge of it afterwards .  A morning of thorough confusion was to be expected .  `` I am glad , '' said Lady Middleton to Lucy , `` you are not going to finish poor little Annamaria 's basket this evening ; for I am sure it must hurt your eyes to work filigree by candlelight .  What are we to do ? -- The year will wear away at this rate , and nothing done .  `` This is very strange ! -- sure he need not wait to be older . ''  `` It is Frank and Miss Fairfax , '' said Mrs. Weston .  No -- pray let her have time to look about her . ''  I have heard him say that he could listen to her for ever .  Then he thought , suddenly , `` I 'll deceive him ! ''  `` Mr. Knightley , '' said Emma , trying to be lively , but really confused -- `` I am in a very extraordinary situation .  Perhaps he has not observed you yet . ''  It is such a happiness when good people get together -- and they always do .  How improperly had she been acting by Harriet !  `` Impossible ! -- I never can call you any thing but `Mr .  I would not attempt to force the confidence of any one ; of a child much less ; because a sense of duty would prevent the denial which her wishes might direct . ''  cried Mrs. Jennings , `` I am sure he should be very welcome to bed and board at my house ; and so I would tell him if I could see him .  She was quite one of her worthies -- the most amiable , affable , delightful woman -- just as accomplished and condescending as Mrs. Elton meant to be considered .  I met the letters in my way this morning , and seeing my son 's hand , presumed to open it -- though it was not directed to me -- it was to Mrs. Weston .  I know no man more likely than Mr. Knightley to do the sort of thing -- to do any thing really good-natured , useful , considerate , or benevolent .  `` I think , indeed , '' said John Knightley pleasantly , `` that Mr. Weston has some little claim .  Edward , having carried his thanks to Colonel Brandon , proceeded with his happiness to Lucy ; and such was the excess of it by the time he reached Bartlett 's Buildings , that she was able to assure Mrs. Jennings , who called on her again the next day with her congratulations , that she had never seen him in such spirits before in her life .  It was such a fine shiny little acorn that he thought he would take it home with him ; so he put out his paw to touch it , but the little acorn rolled away from him .  She liked his open manners , but a little less of open-heartedness would have made him a higher character. -- General benevolence , but not general friendship , made a man what he ought to be. -- She could fancy such a man .  Emma perceived that the nature of his gallantry was a little self-willed , and that he would rather oppose than lose the pleasure of dancing with her ; but she took the compliment , and forgave the rest .  `` I have made a most wretched discovery , '' said he , after a short pause. -- `` I have been here a week to-morrow -- half my time .  But the letter , when she was calm enough to read it , brought little comfort .  `` Nothing , nothing at all , '' replied Grandfather Frog mildly .  When it was time for the Gingerbread Boy to be done she opened the oven door and pulled out the pan .  `` Mr Elliot does not dislike his cousin , I fancy ? ''  MARGERY 'S GARDEN There was once a little girl named Margery , who had always lived in the city .  When the courtiers heard this , and saw the friendly hand-shake , their jealousy of the artist was beyond bounds .  `` Yes ; and every delay makes one more apprehensive of other delays .  He had frightened her a little about Mr. Elton ; but when she considered that Mr. Knightley could not have observed him as she had done , neither with the interest , nor ( she must be allowed to tell herself , in spite of Mr. Knightley 's pretensions ) with the skill of such an observer on such a question as herself , that he had spoken it hastily and in anger , she was able to believe , that he had rather said what he wished resentfully to be true , than what he knew any thing about .  I had not waited even these ten days , could I have read your feelings , as I think you must have penetrated mine .  `` One can suppose nothing else , '' added Mrs. Cole , `` and I was only surprized that there could ever have been a doubt .  `` Yes , '' said his brother hesitatingly , `` there is a likeness .  And they were scalded to death .  Oh father and mother , if buds are nipped , And blossoms blown away ; And if the tender plants are stripped Of their joy in the springing day , By sorrow and care 's dismay , -- How shall the summer arise in joy , Or the summer fruits appear ?  `` I suppose you have heard of the handsome letter Mr. Frank Churchill has written to Mrs. Weston ?  cried Emma , shaking her head. -- '' Ah !  `` Ah ! -- well -- to be sure .  For my temptation to _think_ it a right , I refer every caviller to a brick house , sashed windows below , and casements above , in Highbury .  `` Ah !  So suddenly to be gone !  She paused over it for some time with indignant astonishment ; then read it again and again ; but every perusal only served to increase her abhorrence of the man , and so bitter were her feelings against him , that she dared not trust herself to speak , lest she might wound Marianne still deeper by treating their disengagement , not as a loss to her of any possible good but as an escape from the worst and most irremediable of all evils , a connection , for life , with an unprincipled man , as a deliverance the most real , a blessing the most important .  A child on the watch , came towards them to beg ; and Miss Bickerton , excessively frightened , gave a great scream , and calling on Harriet to follow her , ran up a steep bank , cleared a slight hedge at the top , and made the best of her way by a short cut back to Highbury .  Anne listened , but without quite understanding it .  `` Harriet may not consider every body tiresome that you would . ''  `` Not till the first week of August , when he came home from the Cape , just made into the Grappler .  And the bell was rung , and the carriages spoken for .  `` Why so ? -- we were all his friends , and Lucy has been the longest known to him of any .  The Harvilles silenced all scruples ; and , as much as they could , all gratitude .  There is not a room in this cottage that will hold ten couple , and where can the supper be ? '  Willoughby certainly does not deserve to be suspected .  The compliments of his neighbours were over ; he was no longer teased by being wished joy of so sorrowful an event ; and the wedding-cake , which had been a great distress to him , was all eat up .  Mr. Knightley had done all in his power for Mr. Woodhouse 's entertainment .  In a hurried manner , he replied in the affirmative .  At present , I know him so well , that I think him really handsome ; or at least , almost so .  You must grant me that . ''  `` This is the luxury of a large party , '' said she : -- '' one can get near every body , and say every thing .  `` I must endeavour to subdue my mind to my fortune .  Poor old John , I have a great regard for him ; he was clerk to my poor father twenty-seven years ; and now , poor old man , he is bed-ridden , and very poorly with the rheumatic gout in his joints -- I must go and see him to-day ; and so will Jane , I am sure , if she gets out at all .  `` He longed to see her .  said he .  The gentlemen had their own pursuits , the ladies proceeded on their own business , and they met no more while Anne belonged to them .  `` I am so glad we are got acquainted at last , '' continued Charlotte. -- '' And now I hope we shall always be great friends .  He appeared to have a very open temper -- certainly a very cheerful and lively one ; she could observe nothing wrong in his notions , a great deal decidedly right ; he spoke of his uncle with warm regard , was fond of talking of him -- said he would be the best man in the world if he were left to himself ; and though there was no being attached to the aunt , he acknowledged her kindness with gratitude , and seemed to mean always to speak of her with respect .  And when he died , soon after , he was happy to know that he left Prince Cherry in her hands .  `` Ah !  Am I not a Philistine , and ye servants of Saul ?  What Lucy had asserted to be true , therefore , Elinor could not , dared not longer doubt ; supported as it was too on every side by such probabilities and proofs , and contradicted by nothing but her own wishes .  `` This will prove a spirited beginning of your winter engagements , sir .  Are such thing done on Albion 's shore ?  But the men are all wild after Miss Elliot .  I 'll go no nearer to him . ''  `` I 'll do that , '' said the tailor .  `` But she must not go round by London , '' cried Marianne , in the same hurried manner .  .  So he crept and crawled over the ground till he came to the little Jackal's house .  There was a languor , a want of spirits , a want of union , which could not be got over .  there is one difficulty unprovided for , '' cried Emma .  Such another small basin of thin gruel as his own was all that he could , with thorough self-approbation , recommend ; though he might constrain himself , while the ladies were comfortably clearing the nicer things , to say :  I do not know who would ever look at him in the company of the other .  He seems to have a calm decided temper , not at all open to dangerous impressions .  `` I begged him to exert himself for fear you should suspect what was the matter ; but it made him so melancholy , not being able to stay more than a fortnight with us , and seeing me so much affected. -- Poor fellow ! -- I am afraid it is just the same with him now ; for he writes in wretched spirits .  But she was a very good woman , and if her second object was to be sensible and well-judging , her first was to see Anne happy .  `` From the very circumstance of its being larger , sir .  There are one or two , perhaps , ( glancing at Mr. Weston and Harriet , ) whose thoughts I might not be afraid of knowing . ''  A sudden recollection seemed to occur , and to give him some taste of that emotion which was reddening Anne 's cheeks and fixing her eyes on the ground .  And as he gazed in horror , the fairy 's voice whispered , `` Your soul has become more ugly than your shape is ; you yourself have deformed it . ''  Oh what a multitude they seemed , these flowers of London town !  The lovers were standing together at one of the windows .  It seems there was once a very famous artist who lived in the little town of Duesseldorf .  was all her answer ; but the accent was decisive enough .  `` I never in my life saw a man more intent on being agreeable than Mr. Elton .  It must , if I were not here .  `` Quite _too_ absurd , I declare ! ''  Do promise me . ''  As she said this , she looked earnestly at Lucy , hoping to discover something in her countenance ; perhaps the falsehood of the greatest part of what she had been saying ; but Lucy 's countenance suffered no change .  I dare say you have seen enough of Edward to know that he would prefer the church to every other profession ; now my plan is that he should take orders as soon as he can , and then through your interest , which I am sure you would be kind enough to use out of friendship for him , and I hope out of some regard to me , your brother might be persuaded to give him Norland living ; which I understand is a very good one , and the present incumbent not likely to live a great while .  But what can be the matter ? -- Is she really not ill ? ''  `` I was just going to tell you of our agreeable surprize in seeing him arrive this morning .  he is quite smitten already , and he is very well worth setting your cap at , I can tell you , in spite of all this tumbling about and spraining of ankles . ''  She looked at her however , from time to time , anxiously ; and when the moment approached which must point him out , though not daring to look again ( for her own countenance she knew was unfit to be seen ) , she was yet perfectly conscious of Lady Russell 's eyes being turned exactly in the direction for him -- of her being , in short , intently observing him .  Another song , however , was soon begged for .  She was forced to acknowledge that she could do no good , yet was still unwilling to be away , till , touched by the thought of her father and mother , she gave it up ; she consented , she was anxious to be at home .  At ten o'clock , she trusted , or at least not much later her mother would be relieved from the dreadful suspense in which she must now be travelling towards them .  You will puff her up with such ideas of her own beauty , and of what she has a claim to , that , in a little while , nobody within her reach will be good enough for her .  Elinor could not help laughing .  She soon believed herself to penetrate Mrs. Elton 's thoughts , and understand why she was , like herself , in happy spirits ; it was being in Miss Fairfax 's confidence , and fancying herself acquainted with what was still a secret to other people .  Her manners were open , easy , and decided , like one who had no distrust of herself , and no doubts of what to do ; without any approach to coarseness , however , or any want of good humour .  It was too great a shock to be borne with calmness , and she immediately left the room .  `` And who do you think came in while we were there ? ''  Each behaving so pleasantly .  In fact , Anne could never see the crape round his hat , without fearing that she was the inexcusable one , in attributing to him such imaginations ; for though his marriage had not been very happy , still it had existed so many years that she could not comprehend a very rapid recovery from the awful impression of its being dissolved .  Believe me , sir , I am far , very far , from gratified in being the object of such professions . ''  She loved the child , and had always kept it with her .  They had Mr Elliot too .  Or at least , if she did not bring herself quite to rejoice in Edward 's being fettered to Lucy , she determined , that had Lucy been more amiable , she OUGHT to have rejoiced .  If you think he will come , I shall think so too ; for you know Enscombe . ''  no , I am sure you are a great deal too kind to -- but if you would just advise me what I had best do -- No , no , I do not mean that -- As you say , one 's mind ought to be quite made up -- One should not be hesitating -- It is a very serious thing. -- It will be safer to say `No , ' perhaps. -- Do you think I had better say `No ? ' ''  To my fancy , a thousand times prettier than Barton Park , where they are forced to send three miles for their meat , and have not a neighbour nearer than your mother .  She could not understand his present feelings , whether he were really suffering much from disappointment or not ; and till that point were settled , she could not be quite herself .  There were wishes at Randalls respecting Emma 's destiny , but it was not desirable to have them suspected ; and the quiet transition which Mr. Knightley soon afterwards made to `` What does Weston think of the weather ; shall we have rain ? ''  Captain Harville was no reader ; but he had contrived excellent accommodations , and fashioned very pretty shelves , for a tolerable collection of well-bound volumes , the property of Captain Benwick .  `` To be sure .  She did unfeignedly and unequivocally regret the inferiority of her own playing and singing .  leave all that to me .  `` When I have seen Mr. Elton , '' replied Jane , `` I dare say I shall be interested -- but I believe it requires _that_ with me .  Do you know any family of that name ? ''  I could suppose she might in time -- but can she already ? -- Did not you misunderstand him ? -- You were both talking of other things ; of business , shows of cattle , or new drills -- and might not you , in the confusion of so many subjects , mistake him ? -- It was not Harriet 's hand that he was certain of -- it was the dimensions of some famous ox . ''  My love for Mr. and Mrs. Weston gives me a decided prejudice in his favour . ''  We are not boy and girl , to be captiously irritable , misled by every moment 's inadvertence , and wantonly playing with our own happiness . ''  Shall we not move to-night ? ''  I come now to the relation of a misfortune , which about this time befell Mrs. John Dashwood .  A bride , you know , must appear like a bride , but my natural taste is all for simplicity ; a simple style of dress is so infinitely preferable to finery .  It is bad enough to give way to temper when you are all alone , and there is no one to watch you , but when you let temper get the best of you right where others see you , oh , dear , dear , it certainly is a sorry sight .  She was not a woman of strong understanding or any quickness ; and with this resemblance of her father , she inherited also much of his constitution ; was delicate in her own health , over-careful of that of her children , had many fears and many nerves , and was as fond of her own Mr. Wingfield in town as her father could be of Mr. Perry .  At one time Patty came to say she thought the kitchen chimney wanted sweeping .  Emma could not bear to give him pain .  Miss Anne , I can not help wishing Mrs Charles had a little of your method with those children .  `` Oh !  His coming to visit his father had been often talked of but never achieved .  `` No ; not immediately here .  the great-coat was hanging over the panel , and hid the arms , so it did ; otherwise , I am sure , I should have observed them , and the livery too ; if the servant had not been in mourning , one should have known him by the livery . ''  `` I dare say they are , sir .  Still , the Emperor kept the gold nightingale on the perch in his own room .  So would poor little Harriet .  asked Little Joe Otter , as Buster Bear sat for the longest time without moving .  I could not be happy with a man whose taste did not in every point coincide with my own .  I shall write to Mrs. Partridge in a day or two , and shall give her a strict charge to be on the look-out for any thing eligible . ''  `` As for regret , '' said Marianne , `` I have done with that , as far as HE is concerned .  She did not mean , however , to derive much more from it to gratify her vanity , than Mary might have allowed .  A glass of wine , which Elinor procured for her directly , made her more comfortable , and she was at last able to express some sense of her kindness , by saying ,  Elinor kept her concern and her censure to herself ; and was very thankful that Marianne was not present , to share the provocation .  `` I think I'll investigate a little ! ''  `` You were speaking , '' said he , gravely .  `` But what are his manners on more intimate acquaintance ?  I hope she is right. -- In one respect , my good fortune is undoubted , that of being able to subscribe myself , Your obliged and affectionate Son , F. C. WESTON CHURCHILL .  `` Walter Elliot , born March 1 , 1760 , married , July 15 , 1784 , Elizabeth , daughter of James Stevenson , Esq .  `` Very good , very good , '' trumpeted the Elephant ; `` that suits me ; we will do it . ''  Mrs. Taylor told me of it half an hour ago , and she was told it by a particular friend of Miss Grey herself , else I am sure I should not have believed it ; and I was almost ready to sink as it was .  What should he do ?  Poor Harville , sister !  Sad were they When dawned the morning of Christmas-day ; Their little darling no joy might stir , St Nicholas nothing would bring to her !  They passed some months in great happiness at Dawlish ; for she had many relations and old acquaintances to cut -- and he drew several plans for magnificent cottages ; -- and from thence returning to town , procured the forgiveness of Mrs. Ferrars , by the simple expedient of asking it , which , at Lucy 's instigation , was adopted .  The friendliness of his disposition made him happy in accommodating those , whose situation might be considered , in comparison with the past , as unfortunate .  To her voluntary communications Emma could get no more approving reply , than ,  Elinor only laughed .  `` Yes , '' he replied , `` any body may know how highly I think of her . ''  Elsa 's father and mother worked very hard and became rich .  Until , finally , two children came along , hand in hand , looking carefully at all the small trees .  Then there would n't be any secret .  It will be as clean as Randalls by candlelight .  `` Good heavens ! ''  `` Was there no one else in the carriage ? ''  said the lazy man .  With men he can be rational and unaffected , but when he has ladies to please , every feature works . ''  What !  Emma knew that he was now getting to the Box Hill party , and grew uncomfortable .  said Emma , as she turned back into the hall again .  She had frequently thought -- especially since his father 's marriage with Miss Taylor -- that if she _were_ to marry , he was the very person to suit her in age , character and condition .  After this had been settled , Colonel Brandon began to talk of his own advantage in securing so respectable and agreeable a neighbour , and THEN it was that he mentioned with regret , that the house was small and indifferent ; -- an evil which Elinor , as Mrs. Jennings had supposed her to do , made very light of , at least as far as regarded its size .  .  III .  said Grandfather Frog in his deepest , gruffest voice .  I give you this caution now , because I shall never speak to you again on the subject .  Mr. Edward Ferrars , the very young man I used to joke with you about ( but however , as it turns out , I am monstrous glad there was never any thing in it ) , Mr. Edward Ferrars , it seems , has been engaged above this twelvemonth to my cousin Lucy ! -- There 's for you , my dear ! -- And not a creature knowing a syllable of the matter , except Nancy ! -- Could you have believed such a thing possible ? -- There is no great wonder in their liking one another ; but that matters should be brought so forward between them , and nobody suspect it ! -- THAT is strange ! -- I never happened to see them together , or I am sure I should have found it out directly .  Early in February , within a fortnight from the receipt of Willoughby 's letter , Elinor had the painful office of informing her sister that he was married .  Whether he would have proceeded farther was left to Anne 's imagination to ponder over in a calmer hour ; for while still hearing the sounds he had uttered , she was startled to other subjects by Henrietta , eager to make use of the present leisure for getting out , and calling on her companions to lose no time , lest somebody else should come in .  Anne said what was proper , and enquired after her husband .  Your reasonings carry my judgment along with them entirely .  It is as pretty a letter as ever I saw , and does Lucy 's head and heart great credit . ''  But suddenly the little fingers began to stir .  CHAPTER XIV  Marianne could speak HER happiness only by tears .  --  Do not you , Anne ?  And then not to find him at home !  He restoreth my soul ; he leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name 's sake .  They went to the Tortoise to bid her good-bye .  `` Why , '' said he , `` there has n't been a Bear in the Green Forest for years and years and years , not since my own grandfather was a little boy , and that , you know , was a long , long , long time ago .  taunted Peter .  `` Being very sure I have long lost your affections , I have thought myself at liberty to bestow my own on another , and have no doubt of being as happy with him as I once used to think I might be with you ; but I scorn to accept a hand while the heart was another 's .  `` Oh !  They shall no longer worry others , nor torture myself .  And if that some one should be the very he whom , of all others , I could least bear -- but I will not stay to rob myself of all your compassionate goodwill , by shewing that where I have most injured I can least forgive .  His air and voice recovered their usual briskness : he shook her heartily and gratefully by the hand , and entered on the subject in a manner to prove , that he now only wanted time and persuasion to think the engagement no very bad thing .  As a magistrate , he had generally some point of law to consult John about , or , at least , some curious anecdote to give ; and as a farmer , as keeping in hand the home-farm at Donwell , he had to tell what every field was to bear next year , and to give all such local information as could not fail of being interesting to a brother whose home it had equally been the longest part of his life , and whose attachments were strong .  That is the way with Grandfather Frog .  It is a pity that they were ever got over . ''  He was released without any reproach to himself , from an entanglement which had long formed his misery , from a woman whom he had long ceased to love ; -- and elevated at once to that security with another , which he must have thought of almost with despair , as soon as he had learnt to consider it with desire .  And still she kept giving money to the asylum .  Emma liked the subject so well , that she began upon it , to Mrs. Weston , very soon after their moving into the drawing-room : wishing her joy -- yet observing , that she knew the first meeting must be rather alarming. -- Mrs. Weston agreed to it ; but added , that she should be very glad to be secure of undergoing the anxiety of a first meeting at the time talked of : `` for I can not depend upon his coming .  Her disposition and abilities were equally worthy of all that friendship could do ; and at eighteen or nineteen she was , as far as such an early age can be qualified for the care of children , fully competent to the office of instruction herself ; but she was too much beloved to be parted with .  Many counties , I believe , are called the garden of England , as well as Surry . ''  They hopped upon the bench ; but when they saw the little clothes there , they laughed and danced for joy .  Emma and Harriet went together ; Miss Bates and her niece , with the Eltons ; the gentlemen on horseback .  His emotion on entering the room , in seeing her altered looks , and in receiving the pale hand which she immediately held out to him , was such , as , in Elinor 's conjecture , must arise from something more than his affection for Marianne , or the consciousness of its being known to others ; and she soon discovered in his melancholy eye and varying complexion as he looked at her sister , the probable recurrence of many past scenes of misery to his mind , brought back by that resemblance between Marianne and Eliza already acknowledged , and now strengthened by the hollow eye , the sickly skin , the posture of reclining weakness , and the warm acknowledgment of peculiar obligation .  She wished him very well ; but he gave her pain , and his welfare twenty miles off would administer most satisfaction .  She might have prevented the indulgence and increase of such sentiments .  Emma was in no danger of forgetting .  They sent a messenger to Jove and begged him to send a king to rule over them .  _You_ do not often overpower me with it . ''  From Frank Churchill 's face , where he thought he saw confusion suppressed or laughed away , he had involuntarily turned to hers ; but she was indeed behind , and too busy with her shawl .  Undoubtedly if you wish it , I will endeavour to persuade them both . ''  he cried , `` you would !  -- The pertinacity of her friend seemed more than she could bear .  I know he did .  His gravity and thoughtfulness returned on him in their fullest extent -- and he sat for some time silent and dull .  The symptoms were favourable. -- Instead of answering , Harriet turned away confused , and stood thoughtfully by the fire ; and though the letter was still in her hand , it was now mechanically twisted about without regard .  `` Ah !  She had never found it so difficult to listen to him , though nothing could exceed his solicitude and care , and though his subjects were principally such as were wont to be always interesting : praise , warm , just , and discriminating , of Lady Russell , and insinuations highly rational against Mrs Clay .  Without considering that it was not in her mother 's plan to keep any horse , that if she were to alter her resolution in favour of this gift , she must buy another for the servant , and keep a servant to ride it , and after all , build a stable to receive them , she had accepted the present without hesitation , and told her sister of it in raptures .  Come , and eat my strawberries .  He was wishing to confide in her -- perhaps to consult her ; -- cost her what it would , she would listen .  said she , in a low and disappointed voice , as she turned away to the window .  She has been so kind as to promise it .  You saw her with the Campbells , when she was the equal of every body she mixed with , but here she is with a poor old grandmother , who has barely enough to live on .  They gaily ascended the downs , rejoicing in their own penetration at every glimpse of blue sky ; and when they caught in their faces the animating gales of a high south-westerly wind , they pitied the fears which had prevented their mother and Elinor from sharing such delightful sensations .  She wanted , rather , to be quiet , and out of temptation ; but still , as it was desirable that she should appear , in general , like her usual self , she took care to express as much interest in the circumstance , and enter as warmly into Mr. and Mrs. Weston 's disappointment , as might naturally belong to their friendship .  `` A family can not well be maintained on a smaller .  She had resolution enough to pursue her own will in spite of her brother , but not enough to refrain from unreasonable regrets at that brother 's unreasonable anger , nor from missing the luxuries of her former home .  The poor Dewdrop had listened silently to all that had passed , and felt so wounded , that at last he wished he never had been born .  `` Oh , do n't be so sly before us , '' said Mrs. Palmer ; `` for we know all about it , I assure you ; and I admire your taste very much , for I think he is extremely handsome .  He coloured as he replied , `` You are very kind , but I have no idea of returning into Devonshire immediately .  If I meet with no insuperable difficulties therefore , consider that point as settled . ''  I had imagined him , I confess , a degree or two nearer gentility . ''  `` Colonel Brandon give ME a living ! -- Can it be possible ? ''  They never could have been all three together , without her having stabbed Jane Fairfax 's peace in a thousand instances ; and on Box Hill , perhaps , it had been the agony of a mind that would bear no more .  We shall have him very thankful to anybody that will bring him his wife . ''  Her father was growing distressed for money .  `` 'Roll over ' ! ''  `` He DID feel the same , Elinor -- for weeks and weeks he felt it .  Jane declined it , however , and the husband and wife walked off .  Thirteen years had seen her mistress of Kellynch Hall , presiding and directing with a self-possession and decision which could never have given the idea of her being younger than she was .  This was broken by Willoughby , who said with a faint smile , `` It is folly to linger in this manner .  As the sun is out , I believe I had better take my three turns while I can .  As he became rational , he ought to have roused himself and shaken off all that was unworthy in their authority .  His Mammy looked at him , and then she said , -- `` Law 's sake !  `` Certainly , '' answered Elinor , without knowing what she said ; but after a moment 's reflection , she added , with revived security of Edward 's honour and love , and her companion 's falsehood -- '' Engaged to Mr. Edward Ferrars ! -- I confess myself so totally surprised at what you tell me , that really -- I beg your pardon ; but surely there must be some mistake of person or name .  `` I do not ask you to come in the morning , for we must walk to the park , to call on Lady Middleton . ''  but those two lines are '' --  `` But , '' the Water said , `` Little Half-Chick , little Half-Chick , when I was in trouble you would not help me , '' and came higher than ever .  This is delightful , is not it ? -- Where 's dear Mr .  Mr. Churchill , independent of his wife , was feared by nobody ; an easy , guidable man , to be persuaded into any thing by his nephew .  Upon the hint of having spoken disrespectfully or carelessly of the family and the family honours , he was quite indignant .  To that point went every leisure moment which her father 's claims on her allowed , and every moment of involuntary absence of mind .  Emma found that she must wait ; and now it required little effort .  Papa , if you speak in that melancholy way , you will be giving Isabella a false idea of us all .  Mrs Smith did not want to take blame to herself , and was most tender of throwing any on her husband ; but Anne could collect that their income had never been equal to their style of living , and that from the first there had been a great deal of general and joint extravagance .  He was very much vexed .  Let the Tiger eat the Brahmin ! ''  Had she been a person of consequence herself , he would have come I dare say ; and it would not have signified whether he did or no .  `` The sooner every party breaks up , the better . ''  I will do my best .  As soon as they were fairly ascending Belmont , he began --  What I thought , what I feared , may be imagined ; and what I suffered too . ''  if you knew how much I love every thing that is decided and open ! -- Good-bye , good-bye . ''  `` It is impossible that Emma should not miss such a companion , '' said Mr. Knightley .  It was a palpable display , repeated on every possible occasion .  He should like to see the old house again exceedingly , and should be very happy to meet Mr. and Mrs. Elton , and any other of his neighbours. -- He could not see any objection at all to his , and Emma 's , and Harriet 's going there some very fine morning .  `` But you , who are so extremely fond of it -- there can be no danger , surely ? ''  `` Oh no !  `` My dear Anne , -- I make no apology for my silence , because I know how little people think of letters in such a place as Bath .  cried Chatterer .  what a bloom of full health , and such a pretty height and size ; such a firm and upright figure !  Mr. Perry is extremely concerned when any of us are ill .  One man 's style must not be the rule of another 's .  THE TAILOR AND THE THREE BEASTS There was once a tailor in Galway , and he started out on a journey to go to the king 's court at Dublin .  But you can guess .  Are the Middletons pleasant people ? ''  I hardly looked at him , I was looking at the horses ; but I think he had something of the Elliot countenance , I wonder the arms did not strike me !  `` Something so strange !  Lady Russell , indeed , had scarcely any influence with Elizabeth , and seemed to love her , rather because she would love her , than because Elizabeth deserved it .  And I saw it was filled with graves , And tombstones where flowers should be ; And priests in black gowns were walking their rounds , And binding with briars my joys and desires .  How can you be so forgetful ? ''  After an hour or two spent in what her mother called comfortable chat , or in other words , in every variety of inquiry concerning all their acquaintance on Mrs. Jennings 's side , and in laughter without cause on Mrs. Palmer 's , it was proposed by the latter that they should all accompany her to some shops where she had business that morning , to which Mrs. Jennings and Elinor readily consented , as having likewise some purchases to make themselves ; and Marianne , though declining it at first was induced to go likewise .  `` What ! -- while attending me in all my misery , has this been on your heart ? -- And I have reproached you for being happy ! ''  `` Very true , Miss Woodhouse , so she will .  So he stuck the black end of his snout above the water and waited .  if I could but play as well as you and Miss Fairfax ! ''  She was not yet dancing ; she was working her way up from the bottom , and had therefore leisure to look around , and by only turning her head a little she saw it all .  `` Oh !  But one morning -- I forget exactly the day -- but perhaps it was the Tuesday or Wednesday before _that_ _evening_ , he wanted to make a memorandum in his pocket-book ; it was about spruce-beer .  `` Do n't talk of it , do n't talk of it , '' he cried .  John Knightley came ; but Mr. Weston was unexpectedly summoned to town and must be absent on the very day .  `` Gr-r-r-r ! ''  Not a word did she say about whose child it was , but perhaps the princess guessed ; I do n't know .  But Mrs. John Dashwood was a strong caricature of himself ; -- more narrow-minded and selfish .  And Margery's father made a row of holes , after that , for the tomato plants .  Clever Mr Alligator !  Marianne was still handsomer .  I am sure Mr. Elton will lose no time in calling on him ; and we shall both have great pleasure in seeing him at the Vicarage . ''  But last February , almost a twelvemonth back , she suddenly disappeared .  No , my dearest Marianne , you must wait .  He called for a few moments , just to leave a piece of paper on the table containing , as he said , a charade , which a friend of his had addressed to a young lady , the object of his admiration , but which , from his manner , Emma was immediately convinced must be his own .  Good Heavens ! -- What can be to be _broke_ to me , that does not relate to one of that family ? ''  Aye , I remember it all now ; all , except your saving this relic -- I knew nothing of that till this moment -- but the cutting the finger , and my recommending court-plaister , and saying I had none about me ! -- Oh !  She rushed to the drawing-room , -- she entered it , -- and saw only Willoughby .  Here he stopped to be thanked ; which being done , he went on .  I feel a strong persuasion , this morning , that I shall soon be abroad .  She will tell you any thing if you ask .  They made it sing that same tune thirty-three times , and still they had not had enough .  Help ! ''  Robert of Sicily bowed his head .  The next morning produced no abatement in these happy symptoms .  `` Yes , all of us ; Mrs. Elton would have us come .  `` Our acquaintance , however , is of many years date .  No , it was not regret which made Anne 's heart beat in spite of herself , and brought the colour into her cheeks when she thought of Captain Wentworth unshackled and free .  He had been to several families that morning in hopes of procuring some addition to their number , but it was moonlight and every body was full of engagements .  `` I promise you to make none for myself , papa ; but I must , indeed , for other people .  Elizabeth had succeeded , at sixteen , to all that was possible , of her mother 's rights and consequence ; and being very handsome , and very like himself , her influence had always been great , and they had gone on together most happily .  His father had no apprehension of it .  cried the little boy ; and the trundle-bed went trundling among the trees in the great wood , scaring up the squirrels and startling the little leaves on the trees .  There she perched , and she said to the old Fox , down below , `` You may as well go home , for you ca n't get me . ''  `` What a sweet woman Lady Middleton is ! ''  Mrs. Weston and Emma were sitting together on a sofa .  But this is the usual way of heightening alarm , where there is nothing to be alarmed at in reality . ''  The Fox lifted the big , heavy bag up till it was over the open kettle , and gave it a shake .  `` How charming it will be , '' said Charlotte , `` when he is in Parliament ! -- wo n't it ?  All that she wants is gossip , and she only likes me now because I supply it . ''  `` She must be under some sort of penance , inflicted either by the Campbells or herself .  She had nothing to say one day that she had not said the day before .  Miss Carteret , with still less to say , was so plain and so awkward , that she would never have been tolerated in Camden Place but for her birth .  `` Begorra , now , I 'll have yees Widout much throuble more '' ; An ' in he shlips quite unbeknownst , An ' hides be'ind the door .  said his wife , laughing .  I see they lay helpless & naked : weeping And none to answer , none to cherish thee with mothers smiles .  `` I would do more than for my own .  A small green court was the whole of its demesne in front ; and a neat wicket gate admitted them into it .  The sounds were retreating , and Anne distinguished no more .  my dear , how calmly you talk of it ; and can the Colonel wait two or three months !  `` Oh !  `` Ought to refuse him !  Were I to fall in love , indeed , it would be a different thing !  He had a little red cap , and a little red jacket , and odd little red shoes with points at the toes .  `` Have you indeed , sir ? -- Bless me !  He had abundantly earned the privilege of intimate discussion of her sister 's disappointment , by the friendly zeal with which he had endeavoured to soften it , and they always conversed with confidence .  The evening ended with dancing .  Was his engagement to Lucy an engagement of the heart ?  The Miss Musgroves were not at all tired , and Mary was either offended , by not being asked before any of the others , or what Louisa called the Elliot pride could not endure to make a third in a one horse chaise .  Had he ever been in the way of learning , I think he would have drawn very well .  What will he be doing , in fact , but what very many of our first families have done , or ought to do ?  `` A material difference then , '' she replied -- '' and no doubt you were much my superior in judgment at that period of our lives ; but does not the lapse of one-and-twenty years bring our understandings a good deal nearer ? ''  But is not this a sudden scheme ? ''  `` Oh , I am crying because I do not know how to keep the house , '' said Elsa .  They were afraid then that he would throw down the court , and they sent the wife to him .  Such another scheme , composed of so many ill-assorted people , she hoped never to be betrayed into again .  For , it seems the king had promised his daughter and a great lot of money to anyone who should be able to build up his court .  The high downs which invited them from almost every window of the cottage to seek the exquisite enjoyment of air on their summits , were a happy alternative when the dirt of the valleys beneath shut up their superior beauties ; and towards one of these hills did Marianne and Margaret one memorable morning direct their steps , attracted by the partial sunshine of a showery sky , and unable longer to bear the confinement which the settled rain of the two preceding days had occasioned .  `` And such being the case , '' continued Mrs Smith , after a short pause , `` I hope you believe that I do know how to value your kindness in coming to me this morning .  `` Very likely. -- I think they are , without exception , the most vulgar girls in Highbury . ''  `` But Miss Bates and Miss Fairfax ! ''  He continued ,  If you CAN pity me , Miss Dashwood , pity my situation as it was THEN .  His words were echoed with unspeakable astonishment by all but Elinor , who sat with her head leaning over her work , in a state of such agitation as made her hardly know where she was .  I always look upon her as able to persuade a person to anything !  Could a linguist , could a grammarian , could even a mathematician have seen what she did , have witnessed their appearance together , and heard their history of it , without feeling that circumstances had been at work to make them peculiarly interesting to each other ? -- How much more must an imaginist , like herself , be on fire with speculation and foresight ! -- especially with such a groundwork of anticipation as her mind had already made .  The moon , like a flower In heaven 's high bower , With silent delight , Sits and smiles on the night .  I like them all . ''  I could not comprehend how .  And it is no small credit , in my opinion , to him , that he should excite such an affection ; for , though I would not say it to any body else , she has no more heart than a stone to people in general ; and the devil of a temper . ''  Her daughter , feeling by turns both pleased and pained , surprised and not surprised , was all silent attention .  Or Miss Bates ?  Anne caught his eye , saw his cheeks glow , and his mouth form itself into a momentary expression of contempt , and turned away , that she might neither see nor hear more to vex her .  `Oh ! '  Mr. Weston , do not mistake me .  Give me the book , I will write it down , and then there can be no possible reflection on you . ''  The wretchedness of a scheme to Box Hill was in Emma 's thoughts all the evening .  It was such a sudden yell and such a loud yell that it startled Chatterer so that he nearly fell from his place in the tree , and it made Reddy Fox jump to his feet ready to run .  `` Well , let me make haste and be gone .  `` Tiger , and where were you ? ''  `` You are a good woman , '' he warmly replied .  Blacky and Sammy Jay at once began to scream and make all the fuss they could .  `` And yet I do assure you , '' replied Lucy , her little sharp eyes full of meaning , `` there seemed to me to be a coldness and displeasure in your manner that made me quite uncomfortable .  `` Have we not heard the sound of hammering every day ?  `` You are a good soul , '' cried Captain Harville , putting his hand on her arm , quite affectionately .  `` It is very natural .  Well , Miss Elliot , '' ( lowering his voice , ) `` as I was saying we shall never agree , I suppose , upon this point .  `` Of course not !  There was just one thing he cared about : it was to make his soul so pure and perfect that it could be one of the stones in God 's great Temple of Heaven .  He had been at the pains of consulting Mr. Perry , the apothecary , on the subject .  I have entered many a shop to avoid your sight , as the carriage drove by .  `` Very like Maple Grove indeed ! -- She was quite struck by the likeness ! -- That room was the very shape and size of the morning-room at Maple Grove ; her sister 's favourite room . ''  Well , what do you say to it ? -- I always told you he would be here again soon , did not I ? -- Anne , my dear , did not I always tell you so , and you would not believe me ? -- In town next week , you see -- at the latest , I dare say ; for _she_ is as impatient as the black gentleman when any thing is to be done ; most likely they will be there to-morrow or Saturday .  If you need farther explanation , I have the honour , my dear madam , of being your husband 's son , and the advantage of inheriting a disposition to hope for good , which no inheritance of houses or lands can ever equal the value of. -- See me , then , under these circumstances , arriving on my first visit to Randalls ; -- and here I am conscious of wrong , for that visit might have been sooner paid .  She saw only that he was quiet and unobtrusive , and she liked him for it .  But the plan which had arisen on the sacrifice of this , he trusted his dearest Emma would not find in any respect objectionable ; it was , that he should be received at Hartfield ; that so long as her father 's happiness in other words his life -- required Hartfield to continue her home , it should be his likewise .  If you knew what a consolation it was to me to relieve my heart speaking to you of what I am always thinking of every moment of my life , your compassion would make you overlook every thing else I am sure . ''  He did not mean to complain , however .  `` Marianne , may I ask- ? ''  But farther than this you must not believe .  Sammy Jay looked at Blacky the Crow , and Blacky looked at Chatterer , and Chatterer looked at Happy Jack , and Happy Jack looked at Peter Rabbit , and Peter looked at Unc ' Billy Possum , and Unc ' Billy looked at Bobby Coon , and Bobby looked at Johnny Chuck , and Johnny looked at Reddy Fox , and Reddy looked at Jimmy Skunk , and Jimmy looked at Billy Mink , and Billy looked at Little Joe Otter , and for a minute nobody could say a word .  Each lady was previously well disposed for an agreement , and saw nothing , therefore , but good manners in the other ; and with regard to the gentlemen , there was such an hearty good humour , such an open , trusting liberality on the Admiral 's side , as could not but influence Sir Walter , who had besides been flattered into his very best and most polished behaviour by Mr Shepherd 's assurances of his being known , by report , to the Admiral , as a model of good breeding .  Was he at all such as he appears now ? ''  Their attention to our comfort , their friendliness in every particular , is more than I can express . ''  You must think wretchedly indeed of Willoughby , if , after all that has openly passed between them , you can doubt the nature of the terms on which they are together .  `` Do n't be too sure of that ! ''  She , who had seen her week after week so constantly suffering , oppressed by anguish of heart which she had neither courage to speak of , nor fortitude to conceal , now saw with a joy , which no other could equally share , an apparent composure of mind , which , in being the result as she trusted of serious reflection , must eventually lead her to contentment and cheerfulness .  Together they lived , and worked , and helped the poor .  THE GOLD IN THE ORCHARD There was once a farmer who had a fine olive orchard .  `` Follow me , '' he said ; `` Weep not for the maid ; In my palace deep , Lyca lies asleep . ''  What formidable obstacle is she now to bring forward ?  That was just like Lucy. -- Poor soul !  `` Nothing very bad. -- The fate of thousands .  `` Pooh !  You need not say anything more of your ignorance .  He , who had ever boasted of being an Elliot , and whose feelings , as to connection , were only too strict to suit the unfeudal tone of the present day .  He was dressed in the king 's royal robes , he wore the royal crown , and on his hand was the king 's own ring .  She was all pleasure and gratitude , both for Harriet and herself , and longed to be thanking him ; and though too distant for speech , her countenance said much , as soon as she could catch his eye again .  I had no hesitation in advising him to marry .  Mrs. Elton took a great fancy to Jane Fairfax ; and from the first .  She could not bear that her master should not be able to have another apple-tart this spring .  Your marrying will be equal to the match at Randalls .  She was their earliest visitor in their settled life ; and Captain Wentworth , by putting her in the way of recovering her husband 's property in the West Indies , by writing for her , acting for her , and seeing her through all the petty difficulties of the case with the activity and exertion of a fearless man and a determined friend , fully requited the services which she had rendered , or ever meant to render , to his wife .  You will have much pleasure in being in London , and especially in being together ; and if Elinor would ever condescend to anticipate enjoyment , she would foresee it there from a variety of sources ; she would , perhaps , expect some from improving her acquaintance with her sister-in-law 's family . ''  Mr. Knightley had been telling him something about brewing spruce-beer , and he wanted to put it down ; but when he took out his pencil , there was so little lead that he soon cut it all away , and it would not do , so you lent him another , and this was left upon the table as good for nothing .  You sha n't talk me out of my satisfaction .  _She_ certainly had not been in the wrong , and _he_ would never own that he had .  Emma spoke her pity so very kindly , that with a sudden accession of gay thought , he cried ,  Emma perceived that her taste was not the only taste on which Mr. Weston depended , and felt , that to be the favourite and intimate of a man who had so many intimates and confidantes , was not the very first distinction in the scale of vanity .  Such a woman as Jane Fairfax probably never fell in Mrs. Elton 's way before -- and no degree of vanity can prevent her acknowledging her own comparative littleness in action , if not in consciousness . ''  Everybody leaned forward to watch him .  And she , `` Only to be sure it was paying him too great a compliment , but she did think there were some looks a little like Mr .  He never can bear to be thanked .  I must tell you what an unlucky thing happened to me , as to that .  Think not thou canst sigh a sigh , And thy Maker is not by : Think not thou canst weep a tear , And thy Maker is not year .  `` Well , whenever it suits you .  The touch seemed immediate .  From Willoughby their expression was at first held back , by the embarrassment which the remembrance of his assistance created .  The subject followed ; it was in plain , unaffected , gentlemanlike English , such as Mr. Knightley used even to the woman he was in love with , how to be able to ask her to marry him , without attacking the happiness of her father .  Her legal allowance was not adequate to her fortune , nor sufficient for her comfortable maintenance , and I learnt from my brother that the power of receiving it had been made over some months before to another person .  I know where you spent the morning . ''  Well , pretty good news , is not it ?  So then , I try to put it out of her thoughts , and say , Come ma'am , do not let us think about it any more . ''  `` Surely that is the Nightingale , '' said the courtiers ; `` it really sounds like church-bells ! ''  `` Oh !  .  How well she looked last night ! ''  Elinor laughed .  On going down to breakfast the next morning , she found there had just been a decent pretence on the lady 's side of meaning to leave them .  `` No , no ; Frederick is not a man to whine and complain ; he has too much spirit for that .  It is the very last thing I would stand the brunt of just now .  Children , this story I tell to you , Of Piccola sweet and her bird , is true .  you are what you always were ! ''  And he said to David , `` Am I a dog , that thou comest to me with a cudgel ? ''  `` I admired your resolution very much , sir , '' said he , `` in venturing out in such weather , for of course you saw there would be snow very soon .  Mr. Perry had been to Mrs. Goddard 's to attend a sick child , and Miss Nash had seen him , and he had told Miss Nash , that as he was coming back yesterday from Clayton Park , he had met Mr. Elton , and found to his great surprize , that Mr. Elton was actually on his road to London , and not meaning to return till the morrow , though it was the whist-club night , which he had been never known to miss before ; and Mr. Perry had remonstrated with him about it , and told him how shabby it was in him , their best player , to absent himself , and tried very much to persuade him to put off his journey only one day ; but it would not do ; Mr. Elton had been determined to go on , and had said in a _very_ _particular_ way indeed , that he was going on business which he would not put off for any inducement in the world ; and something about a very enviable commission , and being the bearer of something exceedingly precious .  This was an article not to be entered on by himself ; but a very intimate friend of his , a Colonel Wallis , a highly respectable man , perfectly the gentleman , ( and not an ill-looking man , Sir Walter added ) , who was living in very good style in Marlborough Buildings , and had , at his own particular request , been admitted to their acquaintance through Mr Elliot , had mentioned one or two things relative to the marriage , which made a material difference in the discredit of it .  Directly the Giant-Maidens were brought before Frode , and before they had rested after their long journey , or satisfied their hunger , he bade them go to the mill , and grind for him gold and peace and happiness .  Can a father see his child Weep , nor be with sorrow filled ?  When they saw the Little Fir Tree they cried out , -- `` We 'll take this one ; it is just little enough ! ''  said Elizabeth ; and without waiting for an answer , `` And pray what brings the Crofts to Bath ? ''  . ''  `` You and Miss Smith , and Miss Fairfax , will be three , and the two Miss Coxes five , '' had been repeated many times over .  `` Poor Mrs. Churchill !  We never see any thing of it on our club-nights . ''  With this inspiriting notion , her questions increased in number and meaning ; and she particularly led Harriet to talk more of Mr. Martin , and there was evidently no dislike to it .  `` He WOULD have told me so , I doubt not , had I made any such inquiries , but they happened to be points on which I had been previously informed . ''  `` We are never safe from HIM . ''  It was great fun .  But suspicion of something unpleasant is the inevitable consequence of such an alteration as we just witnessed in him .  Oh !  In this calm kind of way , with very little interest on either side , they continued to talk , both of them out of spirits , and the thoughts of both engaged elsewhere .  Elinor thought it wisest to touch that point no more .  At Lyme , he had received lessons of more than one sort .  If you do not heed its warnings a worse thing will happen to you , for I shall become your enemy . ''  Well , this Miss Louisa , we all thought , you know , was to marry Frederick .  .  Dining once with the Coles -- and having a ball talked of , which never took place .  `` Quite delightful ! ''  She concluded with a very kind invitation to Mr. and Mrs. John Dashwood to visit her at Barton ; and to Edward she gave one with still greater affection .  `` But why should you think , '' said Lucy , looking ashamed of her sister , `` that there are not as many genteel young men in Devonshire as Sussex ? ''  It was done however .  The `` How d 'ye do 's '' were quiet and constrained on each side .  When they were safely over , the little Jackal jumped down and showed the Camel the sugar-cane field ; then he ran swiftly along the river bank , to hunt for crabs ; the Camel began to eat sugar-cane .  But at last she stood quite still , and spoke boldly and proudly .  It was owing to _her_ persuasion , as she thought his being out in bad weather did him a great deal of harm .  `` Oh !  It was by no means his daughter 's wish that the intellects of Highbury in general should be put under requisition .  She could only offer one solution ; it was , perhaps , for Elizabeth 's sake .  `` What have wealth or grandeur to do with happiness ? ''  The yeomanry are precisely the order of people with whom I feel I can have nothing to do .  Mrs. Weston , did you ever hear the like ?  He saw the necessity of inviting the Miss Steeles immediately , and his conscience was pacified by the resolution of inviting his sisters another year ; at the same time , however , slyly suspecting that another year would make the invitation needless , by bringing Elinor to town as Colonel Brandon 's wife , and Marianne as THEIR visitor .  `` The Lion is dead !  His wife hesitated a little , however , in giving her consent to this plan .  `` Certainly , '' said Elinor ; `` and assisted by her liberality , I hope you may yet live to be in easy circumstances . ''  She might in time regain tranquillity ; but HE , what had he to look forward to ?  Soon afterwards Mr. Elton quitted them , and she could not but do him the justice of feeling that there was a great deal of sentiment in his manner of naming Harriet at parting ; in the tone of his voice while assuring her that he should call at Mrs. Goddard 's for news of her fair friend , the last thing before he prepared for the happiness of meeting her again , when he hoped to be able to give a better report ; and he sighed and smiled himself off in a way that left the balance of approbation much in his favour .  Before Mrs Croft had written , he was arrived , and the very next time Anne walked out , she saw him .  They are jealous even of his regard for his father .  I should like to know how many of all my numerous engagements take place without your being of the party ; and why I am to be supposed in danger of wanting leisure to attend to the little boys .  She never misses , I know ; and you must have seen her .  `` I believe I shall learn a good deal from living in the country ; do n't you think so ? ''  Their intercourse was painful enough by letter .  `` I am , & c . ''  Mr. Weston is rather an easy , cheerful-tempered man , than a man of strong feelings ; he takes things as he finds them , and makes enjoyment of them somehow or other , depending , I suspect , much more upon what is called society for his comforts , that is , upon the power of eating and drinking , and playing whist with his neighbours five times a week , than upon family affection , or any thing that home affords . ''  But it should be so no more .  But take care of yourself .  Every body does not hunt . ''  which instantly burst forth , had all the evidence of corresponding perturbation .  Buster 's little eyes twinkled , and he smacked his lips as he moved on to the next little pool , for he knew that it was of no use to stay longer at the first one .  Those who could fly , flew .  Poor Perry is bilious , and he has not time to take care of himself -- he tells me he has not time to take care of himself -- which is very sad -- but he is always wanted all round the country .  She understood their ways , could allow for their ignorance and their temptations , had no romantic expectations of extraordinary virtue from those for whom education had done so little ; entered into their troubles with ready sympathy , and always gave her assistance with as much intelligence as good-will .  We shall live within a few miles of each other , and shall meet every day of our lives .  `` I hope she does .  My only doubt is , whether anything could persuade him to leave his parish .  She could say no more ; her spirits were quite overcome , and hiding her face on Elinor 's shoulder , she burst into tears .  `` Nay , give me no thanks , worthy dame , '' said the visitor .  She would catch a dreadful cold .  Thou His image ever see , Heavenly face that smiles on thee !  The people who went after him followed him until they came to the place where the lion was , and the lion said to them , `` The tailor and his wife were here yesterday .  At any rate it would be most ungenerous .  I should like to see two more here , -- your pretty little friend , Miss Smith , and my son -- and then I should say we were quite complete .  It was not so very much fun to go out that way !  He did n't stop to pick out a path , but just crashed through the bushes as if they were nothing at all , just nothing at all .  Edward could only attempt an explanation by supposing , that , perhaps , at first accidentally meeting , the vanity of the one had been so worked on by the flattery of the other , as to lead by degrees to all the rest .  I beg your pardon .  Give him a book , and he will read all day long . ''  In a very few weeks from the day which brought Sir John Middleton 's first letter to Norland , every thing was so far settled in their future abode as to enable Mrs. Dashwood and her daughters to begin their journey .  thought Emma .  exclaimed Emma .  `` Well , '' said the still waiting Harriet ; -- '' well -- and -- and what shall I do ? ''  In all their dealings and intercourse , Sir Walter Elliot must ever have the precedence .  Pretty joy !  She could thoroughly comprehend the sort of fascination he must possess over Lady Russell 's mind , the difficulty it must be for her to withdraw her eyes , the astonishment she must be feeling that eight or nine years should have passed over him , and in foreign climes and in active service too , without robbing him of one personal grace !  Ferrars . ''  He can not bear the idea of not being Sir William .  `` It is one thing , '' said she , presently -- her cheeks in a glow -- '' to have very good sense in a common way , like every body else , and if there is any thing to say , to sit down and write a letter , and say just what you must , in a short way ; and another , to write verses and charades like this . ''  Thel answerd , O thou little virgin of the peaceful valley .  Elinor could not be surprised at their attachment .  It was growing quite dusk , however , before they were in the neighbourhood of Uppercross , and there had been total silence among them for some time , Henrietta leaning back in the corner , with a shawl over her face , giving the hope of her having cried herself to sleep ; when , as they were going up their last hill , Anne found herself all at once addressed by Captain Wentworth .  `` Oh !  Emma was most sincerely interested .  I dare say we shall be all safe at Hartfield before midnight . ''  I have no wish to be distinguished ; and have every reason to hope I never shall .  The next minute he said , `` My goodness gracious , I am three quarters gone ! ''  To this determination she was the more easily reconciled , by recollecting that Edward Ferrars , by Lucy 's account , was not to be in town before February ; and that their visit , without any unreasonable abridgement , might be previously finished .  Its probability and its eligibility have really so equalled each other !  `` What is it ? ''  This Emma felt was aimed at her ; and it made her quite angry .  Knowing their feelings as she did , it was a most attractive picture of happiness to her .  `` Going so soon ! ''  And the Mouse-deer can not be blamed , by the law of the land ! ''  Elinor turned involuntarily to Marianne , to see whether it could be unobserved by her .  A long time went by , and then , at last , the Emperor grew very ill , and was about to die .  Why does he make it any business of his , to wonder at what I do ? -- at my taking my family to one part of the coast or another ? -- I may be allowed , I hope , the use of my judgment as well as Mr .  `` Oh !  I dream of every body at Highbury when I am away -- and when I have gone through my particular friends , then I begin dreaming of Mr. and Mrs .  `` I declare , I do not know when I have heard any thing that has given me more satisfaction ! -- It always has quite hurt me that Jane Fairfax , who plays so delightfully , should not have an instrument .  I managed it extremely well . ''  So the next morning Little Joe hid before daylight close by the little pool where Buster Bear had given him such a fright .  Sleep , sleep , happy sleep , While o'er thee doth mother weep .  `` It appears to me the most desirable arrangement in the world . ''  Here , she must be leading a life of privation and penance ; there it would have been all enjoyment .  CHAPTER 37  The Miss Musgroves agreed to it ; and having all kindly watched him as far up the hill as they could , they returned to the breakfast table .  You may reach it to-day , if you will ; there is time , if you waste none .  I do not believe I did you any good .  You must have heard him notice Mrs Clay 's freckles . ''  And the clock struck nine .  He ought to have opposed the first attempt on their side to make him slight his father .  As a house , Barton Cottage , though small , was comfortable and compact ; but as a cottage it was defective , for the building was regular , the roof was tiled , the window shutters were not painted green , nor were the walls covered with honeysuckles .  Mrs. Palmer laughed heartily at the recollection of their astonishment , and every body agreed , two or three times over , that it had been quite an agreeable surprise .  Better wait an hour or two , or even half a day for your letters , than run the risk of bringing on your cough again .  `` A degradation to illegitimacy and ignorance , to be married to a respectable , intelligent gentleman-farmer ! ''  Elinor perceived with alarm that she was not quite herself , and , while attempting to soothe her , eagerly felt her pulse .  He had met Mrs. Jennings at the door in her way to the carriage , as he came to leave his farewell card ; and she , after apologising for not returning herself , had obliged him to enter , by saying that Miss Dashwood was above , and wanted to speak with him on very particular business .  `` Oh !  I value not her censure any more than I should do her commendation .  Emma could hardly understand him ; he seemed in an odd humour .  `` Our poor ball must be quite given up . ''  continued Mrs. Palmer -- '' then it must be some other place that is so pretty I suppose . ''  Chapter 14  She could not speak another word. -- Her voice was lost ; and she sat down , waiting in great terror till Harriet should answer .  Elinor 's astonishment at this commission could hardly have been greater , had the Colonel been really making her an offer of his hand .  Your father and mother seem so totally free from all those ambitious feelings which have led to so much misconduct and misery , both in young and old .  This little explanation with Mr. Knightley gave Emma considerable pleasure .  I never was more surprized -- but it does not make me unhappy , I assure you. -- How -- how has it been possible ? ''  .  His information and prospects as to Enscombe were neither worse nor better than had been anticipated ; Mrs. Churchill was recovering , and he dared not yet , even in his own imagination , fix a time for coming to Randalls again .  You can not imagine how suddenly it has come on me !  We never could agree in our choice of a profession .  It was her superior duty .  Lady Middleton had the advantage of being able to spoil her children all the year round , while Sir John 's independent employments were in existence only half the time .  But soon afterwards , rising and pacing the room , he observed sarcastically --  `` You must not talk so , Marianne .  `` Why , to own the truth , '' cried Miss Bates , who had been trying in vain to be heard the last two minutes , `` if I must speak on this subject , there is no denying that Mr. Frank Churchill might have -- I do not mean to say that he did not dream it -- I am sure I have sometimes the oddest dreams in the world -- but if I am questioned about it , I must acknowledge that there was such an idea last spring ; for Mrs. Perry herself mentioned it to my mother , and the Coles knew of it as well as ourselves -- but it was quite a secret , known to nobody else , and only thought of about three days .  The contents of her last note to him were these : --  `` If not in our dispositions , '' she presently added , with a look of true sensibility , `` there is a likeness in our destiny ; the destiny which bids fair to connect us with two characters so much superior to our own . ''  They were now able to speak to each other and consult .  This gallant young man , who seemed to love without feeling , and to recommend himself without complaisance , directly handed over the word to Miss Fairfax , and with a particular degree of sedate civility entreated her to study it .  `` You will not ask me what is the point of envy. -- You are determined , I see , to have no curiosity. -- You are wise -- but _I_ can not be wise .  The event had every promise of happiness for her friend .  When she brought the flour home she said , `` Who will make some bread with this flour ? ''  A little disordered always the first twenty-four hours of going to sea , but never knew what sickness was afterwards .  `` Good Heaven ! ''  The farmer was in the field to-day , and he said , 'The corn is ready to cut ; we must call in the neighbours to help . '  But the expression is hardly admissible , Mrs. Weston , is it ?  `` If you 'll excuse me , '' he said , `` I think I will go home .  Yours affectionately ,  I dare say he will come in when he knows who is here .  Barton Park was about half a mile from the cottage .  `` Take me to this Lion , '' he said ; `` I 'll eat him up and then I 'll eat you up . ''  He did not speak , he did not behave like himself .  After a short silence on both sides , Mrs. Jennings , with all her natural hilarity , burst forth again .  cried Chatterer , and ran out to the very tip of the little branch to which he had been clinging .  Ferrars . ''  We have nothing clever to say -- not one of us .  Then everybody began to laugh .  Receive it on my judgment .  This is not the only story that has come down to tell us how people of old accounted for the sea being salt .  The bare possibility of it acted as a farther irritation on her spirits ; and her being left in solitary grandeur , even supposing the omission to be intended as a compliment , was but poor comfort .  That would have been too dreadful ! -- What an escape ! -- Dear Miss Woodhouse , I would not give up the pleasure and honour of being intimate with you for any thing in the world . ''  I can see nothing at all extraordinary in him now. -- I do not care whether I meet him or not -- except that of the two I had rather not see him -- and indeed I would go any distance round to avoid him -- but I do not envy his wife in the least ; I neither admire her nor envy her , as I have done : she is very charming , I dare say , and all that , but I think her very ill-tempered and disagreeable -- I shall never forget her look the other night ! -- However , I assure you , Miss Woodhouse , I wish her no evil. -- No , let them be ever so happy together , it will not give me another moment 's pang : and to convince you that I have been speaking truth , I am now going to destroy -- what I ought to have destroyed long ago -- what I ought never to have kept -- I know that very well ( blushing as she spoke ) . -- However , now I will destroy it all -- and it is my particular wish to do it in your presence , that you may see how rational I am grown .  She questioned him as to the society in Yorkshire -- the extent of the neighbourhood about Enscombe , and the sort ; and could make out from his answers that , as far as Enscombe was concerned , there was very little going on , that their visitings were among a range of great families , none very near ; and that even when days were fixed , and invitations accepted , it was an even chance that Mrs. Churchill were not in health and spirits for going ; that they made a point of visiting no fresh person ; and that , though he had his separate engagements , it was not without difficulty , without considerable address _at_ _times_ , that he could get away , or introduce an acquaintance for a night .  The following spring he was seen again in town , found equally agreeable , again encouraged , invited , and expected , and again he did not come ; and the next tidings were that he was married .  She hoped to be wise and reasonable in time ; but alas !  Such violence of affliction indeed could not be supported for ever ; it sunk within a few days into a calmer melancholy ; but these employments , to which she daily recurred , her solitary walks and silent meditations , still produced occasional effusions of sorrow as lively as ever .  But why ?  These two lie folded up in the little seed from the beginning , and are full of plant food .  They were going to take the two eldest boys to Astley 's .  Do let me hear a word about the expense of it . ''  When you tell me to love him as a brother , I shall no more see imperfection in his face , than I now do in his heart . ''  dear !  You want your neighbours ' opinions .  `` Nothing remarkable .  Elinor 's happiness was not so great .  It would have killed me never to come to Hartfield any more ! ''  She saw with maternal complacency all the impertinent encroachments and mischievous tricks to which her cousins submitted .  Dear , Miss Woodhouse , I was absolutely miserable !  `` Oh !  `Full many a flower is born to blush unseen , `And waste its fragrance on the desert air . '  Can you fail to have understood my wishes ?  And it was so with the little Jackal .  What in the world made you do it ?  have you heard the news ? ''  Then the little Gingerbread Boy ran faster than ever .  There were dark , shadowy woods , and fields of flowers , and a river .  But you will not give me your advice , Miss Dashwood ? ''  I could not derive benefit from the late knowledge I had acquired of your character .  Lady Middleton was equally pleased with Mrs. Dashwood .  The difference in that respect of Richmond and London was enough to make the whole difference of seeing him always and seeing him never .  The cheeks which had been pale now glowed , and the movements which had hesitated were decided .  The great hall was filled with lights and flowers ; the tables were set with everything that is delicate and rich to eat ; the courtiers , in their gay clothes , were laughing and talking ; and at the head of the feast , on the king 's own throne , sat a king .  `` My dear Emma , as long as he thinks so , it is so ; but if he really loves Jane Fairfax -- ''  I wish you had been with us yesterday , for then you might have decided between us ; and I am sure you would have thought as I did , unless you had been determined to give it against me . ''  Mrs. Dixon , I understand , has no remarkable degree of personal beauty ; is not , by any means , to be compared with Miss Fairfax . ''  Dear Harriet , I give myself joy of this .  `` Wonder who it was ?  As Harriet described it , there had been an interesting mixture of wounded affection and genuine delicacy in their behaviour .  `` Yes , '' said he , smiling -- '' and reason good .  She introduced him to her friend , Miss Smith , and , at convenient moments afterwards , heard what each thought of the other .  First , she took a basket made of bulrushes and daubed it all over with pitch , so that it was water-tight , and then she laid the baby in it ; then she carried it to the edge of the river and laid it in the flags by the river 's brink .  Quickly she knelt down on the footpath , to see .  He came four times a day for a week .  They were no sooner in the passage than Marianne came hastily out of the parlour apparently in violent affliction , with her handkerchief at her eyes ; and without noticing them ran up stairs .  Reflection had given calmness to her judgment , and sobered her own opinion of Willoughby 's deserts ; -- she wished , therefore , to declare only the simple truth , and lay open such facts as were really due to his character , without any embellishment of tenderness to lead the fancy astray .  He had expressed himself as to coming , with more than common certainty .  Mrs. Weston laughed , and said he did not know what he was talking about .  He could not be satisfied without a promise -- would not she give him her influence in procuring it ? ''  Palmer ? ''  But it is impossible not to feel uneasiness .  `` Only think of Elizabeth 's including everybody ! ''  I am sure Miss Nash would -- for Miss Nash thinks her own sister very well married , and it is only a linen-draper . ''  Now , I can not help thinking it a pity that he does not live entirely by the sea .  I will answer for it _she_ never betrayed the least thing in the world .  It shall be a regular party , small , but most elegant . ''  no , upon my word I have not the smallest wish for your marrying Jane Fairfax or Jane any body .  Another view of man , my second brings ; Behold him there , the monarch of the seas !  I am so ill I can hardly speak .  `` Ha !  `` I should never think of standing on such ceremony with people I know so well as Mrs and the Miss Musgroves . ''  Jane Fairfax 's perception seemed to accompany his ; her comprehension was certainly more equal to the covert meaning , the superior intelligence , of those five letters so arranged .  The next morning after the garden was planted , Margery was up and out at six o'clock .  And now to be sure you will be in no hurry to be gone .  What do you advise ? ''  `` To be sure we do , '' cried his father ; `` Mrs. Bates -- we passed her house -- I saw Miss Bates at the window .  But Mrs. Dashwood was alike uninfluenced by either consideration .  When you had the presence of mind to suggest that Benwick would be the properest person to fetch a surgeon , you could have little idea of his being eventually one of those most concerned in her recovery . ''  Abundance of civilities passed on all sides .  Mary , resenting that she should be supposed not to know her own cousin , began talking very warmly about the family features , and protesting still more positively that it was Mr Elliot , calling again upon Anne to come and look for herself , but Anne did not mean to stir , and tried to be cool and unconcerned .  He stole _our_ fish , if you like that any better .  Compare Mr. Martin with either of _them_ .  She rejoiced in his being cleared from some part of his imputed guilt ; -- she was sorry for him ; -- she wished him happy .  The hills which surrounded the cottage terminated the valley in that direction ; under another name , and in another course , it branched out again between two of the steepest of them .  It is a very large one , I know ; and when I come to see you , I hope you will have new-furnished it , for it wanted it very much when I was there six years ago . ''  snapped Little Joe .  This however was what Lady Russell had now to do .  He coloured , and stammered out an unintelligible reply .  But you were humble .  Did n't I say that he was afraid of Buster Bear ? ''  Look !  What sort of cage was it ? ''  Your interest , Sir Walter , is in pretty safe hands .  `` Engaged since October , -- secretly engaged. -- It has hurt me , Emma , very much .  But he was neither fitted by abilities nor disposition to answer the wishes of his mother and sister , who longed to see him distinguished -- as -- they hardly knew what .  Well , said I , all I can say is , that if this be true , he has used a young lady of my acquaintance abominably ill , and I wish with all my soul his wife may plague his heart out .  But unfortunately in bestowing these embraces , a pin in her ladyship 's head dress slightly scratching the child 's neck , produced from this pattern of gentleness such violent screams , as could hardly be outdone by any creature professedly noisy .  my dear sir , as my mother says , our friends are only too good to us .  Mr. Perry did say so .  Elinor found , when the evening was over , that disposition is not materially altered by a change of abode , for although scarcely settled in town , Sir John had contrived to collect around him , nearly twenty young people , and to amuse them with a ball .  But nobody heard , or , at least , nobody answered her .  I am coming ! ''  `` Yes , so I imagined .  She was very much obliged to him , but declined it all , repeating her conviction , that the rain would come to nothing at present , and adding , `` I am only waiting for Mr Elliot .  She instantly wrote Sir John Middleton her acknowledgment of his kindness , and her acceptance of his proposal ; and then hastened to shew both letters to her daughters , that she might be secure of their approbation before her answer were sent .  `` Well , if you do not think it too late to give notice for yourself , suppose you were to go , as well as your husband .  was his reply , but not at all in anger .  `` What for ? ''  This is like giving ourselves a slap , to be sure !  The little ones leaped , and shouted , and laughed , And all the hills echoed .  `` Here comes this dear old beau of mine , I protest ! -- Only think of his gallantry in coming away before the other men ! -- what a dear creature he is ; -- I assure you I like him excessively .  They were all in high spirits and good humour , eager to be happy , and determined to submit to the greatest inconveniences and hardships rather than be otherwise .  He , too , felt the strange blessed presence of a heavenly power .  That is what Farmer Brown 's boy said when he found that Buster Bear had stolen the berries he had worked so hard to pick and then had run off with the pail .  Then he thought he should be perfectly happy , having his own way ; but instead , he grew more unhappy as he grew less good .  if these are your only objections , '' cried Mrs Smith , archly , `` Mr Elliot is safe , and I shall give myself no more trouble about him .  She had been repeatedly very earnest in trying to get Anne included in the visit to London , sensibly open to all the injustice and all the discredit of the selfish arrangements which shut her out , and on many lesser occasions had endeavoured to give Elizabeth the advantage of her own better judgement and experience ; but always in vain : Elizabeth would go her own way ; and never had she pursued it in more decided opposition to Lady Russell than in this selection of Mrs Clay ; turning from the society of so deserving a sister , to bestow her affection and confidence on one who ought to have been nothing to her but the object of distant civility .  At first , while I supposed you satisfied that Colonel Campbell was the giver , I saw it only as paternal kindness , and thought it the most natural thing in the world .  In all their walks , he had had to jump her from the stiles ; the sensation was delightful to her .  She then found that it consisted of Mrs Musgrove , Henrietta , and Captain Harville , beside their two selves .  She is poor ; she has sunk from the comforts she was born to ; and , if she live to old age , must probably sink more .  Just as your drawings always are , my dear .  The husband had not been what he ought , and the wife had been led among that part of mankind which made her think worse of the world than she hoped it deserved .  Nothing but such a persuasion could have prevented his putting an end to an engagement , which , long before the discovery of it laid him open to his mother 's anger , had been a continual source of disquiet and regret to him .  It will help you , too , to think the same thoughts .  No wonder Sammy was excited .  replied Emma , unable to guess , by look or voice , whether Harriet could indeed have received any hint .  In another day or two perhaps ; this extreme mildness can hardly last longer -- nay , perhaps it may freeze tonight ! ''  She had received ideas which disposed her to be courteous and kind to all , and to pity every one , as being less happy than herself .  She was obliged to recollect that her seeing the letter was a violation of the laws of honour , that no one ought to be judged or to be known by such testimonies , that no private correspondence could bear the eye of others , before she could recover calmness enough to return the letter which she had been meditating over , and say --  `` You know I always cure you when I come .  He was running along in the grass , poking his nose into everything and looking with his two eyes all about , when he saw a smooth , shiny acorn , lying in the grass .  `` Pardon me , '' replied Elinor , startled by the question ; `` but I can give you no advice under such circumstances .  This is quite the season indeed for friendly meetings .  He has not such a fine air and way of walking as Mr. Knightley .  I am always well , you know .  `` There is hardly any personal defect , '' replied Anne , `` which an agreeable manner might not gradually reconcile one to . ''  See him go !  Ah then at times I drooping sit , And spend many an anxious hour ; Nor in my book can I take delight , Nor sit in learning 's bower , Worn through with the dreary shower .  She found him , however , perfectly the gentleman in his behaviour to all his visitors , and only occasionally rude to his wife and her mother ; she found him very capable of being a pleasant companion , and only prevented from being so always , by too great an aptitude to fancy himself as much superior to people in general , as he must feel himself to be to Mrs. Jennings and Charlotte .  For a whole minute they stood there face to face , gazing into each other 's eyes , while everybody watched and waited , and it seemed as if the whole Green Forest was holding its breath .  Such a number of women and children have no right to be comfortable on board . ''  Elinor smiled again , to hear her sister describing so accurately their future expenses at Combe Magna .  `` A knock at the door !  I have not heard of any thing to please me so well since Charlotte was brought to bed . ''  `` He would be a very lucky man , Shepherd , '' replied Sir Walter ; `` that 's all I have to remark .  I should be as ready to acknowledge his merits as any other man ; but I hear of none , except what are merely personal ; that he is well-grown and good-looking , with smooth , plausible manners . ''  Miss Morton , only daughter of the late Lord Morton , with thirty thousand pounds .  Her height was pretty , just such as almost every body would think tall , and nobody could think very tall ; her figure particularly graceful ; her size a most becoming medium , between fat and thin , though a slight appearance of ill-health seemed to point out the likeliest evil of the two .  Like him !  Her resolution was formed as she read .  I declare , Anne , he never talks of you at all . ''  `` If he would be so good as to read to them , it would be a kindness indeed !  `` If you watch me sow one row , I think you can do the next , '' said her father .  `` We think so very differently on this point , Mr. Knightley , that there can be no use in canvassing it .  Anne went home to think over all that she had heard .  She who had not been able to remain in Louisa 's room , or to look at her , without sufferings which made her worse than helpless !  `` Donwell ! ''  The young people were all wild to see Lyme .  You are very obliging to say such things -- but certainly not .  How few people know what comfort is !  A little further perseverance in patience and forced cheerfulness on Anne 's side produced nearly a cure on Mary 's .  Had you not been surrounded by other friends , I might have been tempted to introduce a subject , to ask questions , to speak more openly than might have been strictly correct. -- I feel that I should certainly have been impertinent . ''  Such behaviour as this , so exactly the reverse of her own , appeared no more meritorious to Marianne , than her own had seemed faulty to her .  After a time , Margaret had a chance to get a bakery , and then she became a bread-woman instead of a milk-woman .  Mr. and Mrs. John Knightley , from having been longer than usual absent from Surry , were exciting of course rather more than the usual interest .  `` That was all .  And as to my poor word `success , ' which you quarrel with , I do not know that I am so entirely without any claim to it .  She had often observed the change , to almost the same extent. -- Harriet repeated expressions of approbation and praise from him -- and Emma felt them to be in the closest agreement with what she had known of his opinion of Harriet .  It was a fine family-piece .  She heard him sigh .  Happily he was not farther from approving matrimony than from foreseeing it. -- Though always objecting to every marriage that was arranged , he never suffered beforehand from the apprehension of any ; it seemed as if he could not think so ill of any two persons ' understanding as to suppose they meant to marry till it were proved against them .  Respect would be added to affection .  `` No , indeed , it is not . ''  How do you do , Mr .  `` This is too bad , '' cried Emma , as they turned away .  I think not .  she replied .  Jane , do n't you remember grandmama 's telling us of it when we got home ?  On Friday morning she meant to go very early to Lady Russell , and accomplish the necessary communication ; and she would have gone directly after breakfast , but that Mrs Clay was also going out on some obliging purpose of saving her sister trouble , which determined her to wait till she might be safe from such a companion .  `` Well , it would serve to cure him of an absurd practice of never asking a question at an inn , which he had adopted , when quite a young man , on the principal of its being very ungenteel to be curious .  He is , moreover , aware that she DOES disapprove the connection , he dares not therefore at present confess to her his engagement with Marianne , and he feels himself obliged , from his dependent situation , to give into her schemes , and absent himself from Devonshire for a while .  Oh !  More than I can recollect in a moment ; but I can tell you some .  `` The name of Anne Elliot , '' said he , `` has long had an interesting sound to me .  God knows , I have been a very indifferent lover. -- But you understand me. -- Yes , you see , you understand my feelings -- and will return them if you can .  But in the interim -- in the interim of the very few hours that were to pass , before I could have an opportunity of speaking with her in private -- a circumstance occurred -- an unlucky circumstance , to ruin all my resolution , and with it all my comfort .  We must consider what Miss Fairfax quits , before we condemn her taste for what she goes to . ''  Weather becomes absolutely of no consequence .  `` Me ! -- I suppose I smile for pleasure at Colonel Campbell 's being so rich and so liberal. -- It is a handsome present . ''  Emma , I must tell you what you will not ask , though I may wish it unsaid the next moment . ''  I knew him to be a very good sort of man , and I thought well of his daughter -- better than she deserved , for , with a most obstinate and ill-judged secrecy , she would tell nothing , would give no clue , though she certainly knew all .  But if she DID , the letter was written and sent away with a privacy which eluded all her watchfulness to ascertain the fact .  The invitation was everywhere so well received , that it seemed as if , like Mrs. Elton , they were all taking the scheme as a particular compliment to themselves. -- Emma and Harriet professed very high expectations of pleasure from it ; and Mr. Weston , unasked , promised to get Frank over to join them , if possible ; a proof of approbation and gratitude which could have been dispensed with. -- Mr. Knightley was then obliged to say that he should be glad to see him ; and Mr. Weston engaged to lose no time in writing , and spare no arguments to induce him to come .  Their departure took place in the first week in January .  HE , meanwhile , whatever he might feel , acted with all the firmness of a collected mind , made every necessary arrangement with the utmost despatch , and calculated with exactness the time in which she might look for his return .  She comforted her father better than she could comfort herself , by representing that though he certainly would make them nine , yet he always said so little , that the increase of noise would be very immaterial .  I think we do want a larger council .  `` Well , '' said Emma , willing to let it pass -- '' you want to hear about the wedding ; and I shall be happy to tell you , for we all behaved charmingly .  Mr. Martin is now awkward and abrupt ; what will he be at Mr. Weston 's time of life ? ''  But in every respect , as she saw more of her , she approved her , and was confirmed in all her kind designs .  `` That is a good thing .  Ah !  You do nothing .  I would not disappoint the little angel for all the world : and if you want me at the card-table now , I am resolved to finish the basket after supper . ''  But the correctness of his eye , and the delicacy of his taste , proved to be beyond his politeness .  The thought made him so sorry and ashamed that he repented bitterly the evil he had done .  The next morning brought a farther trial of it , in a visit from their brother , who came with a most serious aspect to talk over the dreadful affair , and bring them news of his wife .  The evening came , the drawing-rooms were lighted up , the company assembled .  `` Oho !  Mrs. Palmer and two elderly ladies of Mrs. Jennings 's intimate acquaintance , whom she had met and invited in the morning , dined with them .  `` Epaminondas , you ai n't got the sense you was born with !  `` I know nothing of the large parties of London , sir -- I never dine with any body . ''  `` How do you do , Mrs. Ford ?  It was his idea to bring her to Hartfield : he had thought of no other place .  She would have been glad to know when these difficulties were to cease , this opposition was to yield , -- when Mrs. Ferrars would be reformed , and her son be at liberty to be happy .  `` This was settled last night , and Frank was off with the light this morning .  `` Might not they use both rooms , and dance across the passage ? ''  `` I do so wonder , Miss Woodhouse , that you should not be married , or going to be married !  You are resolved to think him blameable , because he took leave of us with less affection than his usual behaviour has shewn .  They are gone back to Kellynch , and almost made me swear to visit them this summer ; but my first visit to Kellynch will be with a surveyor , to tell me how to bring it with best advantage to the hammer .  `` I certainly did not seek your confidence , '' said Elinor ; `` but you do me no more than justice in imagining that I may be depended on .  She could determine nothing at present .  However , I got a very good husband , and I do n't know what the greatest beauty can do more .  The manoeuvres of selfishness and duplicity must ever be revolting , but I have heard nothing which really surprises me .  The house was large and handsome ; and the Middletons lived in a style of equal hospitality and elegance .  Harriet could not long resist so delightful a persuasion .  So they made a statue of her , just as she used to look , sitting in her own office door , or driving in her own little cart .  Mrs Clay 's selfishness was not so complicate nor so revolting as his ; and Anne would have compounded for the marriage at once , with all its evils , to be clear of Mr Elliot 's subtleties in endeavouring to prevent it .  It was an unsuitable connexion , and did not produce much happiness .  Little Henry must remain the heir of Donwell .  Hovering and glittering on the air before the face of Thel .  And , besides , I must give you a hint , Frank ; any want of attention to her _here_ should be carefully avoided .  She went to it ; but the music on which her eye first rested was an opera , procured for her by Willoughby , containing some of their favourite duets , and bearing on its outward leaf her own name in his hand-writing. -- That would not do. -- She shook her head , put the music aside , and after running over the keys for a minute , complained of feebleness in her fingers , and closed the instrument again ; declaring however with firmness as she did so , that she should in future practice much .  They used to climb up on the hay-loft for a stage , and the grown people sat in chairs on the floor .  `` Poor dear fellow ! ''  She would be never led into temptation , nor left for it to find her out .  Some of these songs were so beautiful that they have never been forgotten .  very unaccountable !  She began , however , seriously to turn her thoughts towards its accomplishment , and had already mentioned their wishes to their kind hostess , who resisted them with all the eloquence of her good-will , when a plan was suggested , which , though detaining them from home yet a few weeks longer , appeared to Elinor altogether much more eligible than any other .  It was all general approbation and smoothness ; nothing delineated or distinguished .  He said nothing worth hearing -- looked without seeing -- admired without intelligence -- listened without knowing what she said .  I believe it is the only way that Mr. Woodhouse thinks the fruit thoroughly wholesome .  `` It is very unfair to judge of any body 's conduct , without an intimate knowledge of their situation .  `` I am extremely glad to hear it , upon my word ; extremely glad indeed .  But suddenly , as she floated down , she remembered something which had been told her when she was a tiny Cloud-child , in the lap of Mother Ocean : it had been whispered that if the Clouds go too near the earth they die .  `` Oh no ; -- and it is but a short letter too . ''  The real state of things between Willoughby and her sister was so little known to herself , that in endeavouring to explain it , she might be as liable to say too much as too little .  `` Nothing , '' said the older woman , `` unless , unless -- it might be called a good deed -- -- '' She looked at the younger woman , who smiled back at her .  `` A _puppy-dog_ ! ''  She was a plain , motherly kind of woman , who had worked hard in her youth , and now thought herself entitled to the occasional holiday of a tea-visit ; and having formerly owed much to Mr. Woodhouse 's kindness , felt his particular claim on her to leave her neat parlour , hung round with fancy-work , whenever she could , and win or lose a few sixpences by his fireside .  Her curiosity was greatly excited .  At length she replied :  She had talked her into love ; but , alas !  To her , its greatest interest must be , in having been very much talked of between her friend and Mr Elliot ; in having been wished for , regretted , and at the same time honoured for staying away in such a cause .  III BUSTER BEAR IS GREATLY PUZZLED Buster Bear had n't enjoyed himself so much since he came to the Green Forest to live .  Indeed a man could not very well be in love with either of her daughters , without extending the passion to her ; and Elinor had the satisfaction of seeing him soon become more like himself .  After a proper resistance on the part of Mrs. Ferrars , just so violent and so steady as to preserve her from that reproach which she always seemed fearful of incurring , the reproach of being too amiable , Edward was admitted to her presence , and pronounced to be again her son .  I am no young lady on her preferment .  You see we have been wedging one leg with paper .  It takes a great deal to rouse his temper .  Captain Weston was a general favourite ; and when the chances of his military life had introduced him to Miss Churchill , of a great Yorkshire family , and Miss Churchill fell in love with him , nobody was surprized , except her brother and his wife , who had never seen him , and who were full of pride and importance , which the connexion would offend .  Miss Bates had just done as Patty opened the door ; and her visitors walked upstairs without having any regular narration to attend to , pursued only by the sounds of her desultory good-will .  I know what is due to my tenant . ''  `` This was really his , '' said Harriet. -- '' Do not you remember one morning ? -- no , I dare say you do not .  But he was confident that he should soon be rich : full of life and ardour , he knew that he should soon have a ship , and soon be on a station that would lead to everything he wanted .  He cut out the shoes , ready to stitch , and left them on the bench ; then he said his prayers and went to bed , trusting that he could finish the shoes on the next day and sell them .  pondered the Beetle as he continued his homeward way .  `` My dear Frederick , you are talking quite idly .  Anne did think on the question with perfect decision , and said as much in reply as her own feeling could accomplish , or as his seemed able to bear , for he was too much affected to renew the subject , and when he spoke again , it was of something totally different .  I fear that I am not like thee : For I walk through the vales of Har , and smell the sweetest flowers : But I feed not the little flowers : I hear the warbling birds , But I feed not the warbling birds , they fly and seek their food : But Thel delights in these no more because I fade away And all shall say , without a use this shining women liv 'd , Or did she only live to be at death the food of worms .  `` Very true , '' said Harriet .  She must have delighted the Coles -- worthy people , who deserved to be made happy ! -- And left a name behind her that would not soon die away .  `` Mrs. John Knightley is easily alarmed , and might be made unhappy about her sister . ''  It had a most favourable aspect ; and , for half a minute , Emma felt the glory of having schemed successfully .  A long time , is not it , for a cold to hang upon her ?  I met him just now .  Papa laughed .  Oh !  The idea of her being indebted to Mrs. Elton for what was called an _introduction_ -- of her going into public under the auspices of a friend of Mrs. Elton 's -- probably some vulgar , dashing widow , who , with the help of a boarder , just made a shift to live ! -- The dignity of Miss Woodhouse , of Hartfield , was sunk indeed !  `` You are quite in the right , '' replied Elinor calmly .  `` He ought to come , '' said Emma .  The Admiral 's kind urgency came in support of his wife 's ; they would not be refused ; they compressed themselves into the smallest possible space to leave her a corner , and Captain Wentworth , without saying a word , turned to her , and quietly obliged her to be assisted into the carriage .  Oh !  You will tell me , I know , that this may or may NOT have happened ; but I will listen to no cavil , unless you can point out any other method of understanding the affair as satisfactory at this .  She might do very well by herself .  He just had to stand it and do nothing .  Father , you mock me ! ''  Nobody could be so imprudent !  Better pass it off as a joke .  said Mr. Weston .  It was his duty .  A thousand and a thousand thanks for all the kindness you have ever shewn me , and ten thousand for the attentions your heart will dictate towards her. -- If you think me in a way to be happier than I deserve , I am quite of your opinion. -- Miss W. calls me the child of good fortune .  With what indignation such a letter as this must be read by Miss Dashwood , may be imagined .  said the Fox .  She was confined for some days to the house ; but never had any confinement been less irksome .  The tea things were brought in , and already had Marianne been disappointed more than once by a rap at a neighbouring door , when a loud one was suddenly heard which could not be mistaken for one at any other house , Elinor felt secure of its announcing Willoughby 's approach , and Marianne , starting up , moved towards the door .  The want of proper families in the place , and the conviction that none beyond the place and its immediate environs could be tempted to attend , were mentioned ; but he was not satisfied .  Emma was not thinking of it at the moment , which made the information she received more valuable .  A complete change of life became desirable .  `` But then at other times I have not resolution enough for it. -- I can not bear the thoughts of making him so miserable , as I know the very mention of such a thing would do .  Yes , Sir , Buster Bear was having the worst fit of temper ever seen in the Green Forest .  oh !  Nobody is more liked than Mr. Willoughby wherever he goes , and so you may tell your sister .  She felt all the force of that comparison ; but not as her sister had hoped , to urge her to exertion now ; she felt it with all the pain of continual self-reproach , regretted most bitterly that she had never exerted herself before ; but it brought only the torture of penitence , without the hope of amendment .  He always moved with the alertness of a mind which could neither be undecided nor dilatory , but now he seemed more sudden than usual in his disappearance .  was Mr. Woodhouse 's first exclamation , and all that he could say for some time .  `` I am going into the village to see my horses , '' said be , `` as you are not yet ready for breakfast ; I shall be back again presently . ''  They are known to no human being , I guess , but herself .  For an old built sloop , you would not see her equal .  The two little mice nibbled and nibbled , and the Country Mouse thought he had never tasted anything so delicious in his life .  It is with great regret that I obey your commands in returning the letters with which I have been honoured from you , and the lock of hair , which you so obligingly bestowed on me .  The two gentlemen arrived the next day to a very late dinner , affording a pleasant enlargement of the party , and a very welcome variety to their conversation , which a long morning of the same continued rain had reduced very low .  `` I do not pretend to fix on times or places , but I must tell you that I have good reason to believe your little friend will soon hear of something to her advantage . ''  `` Ah ! ''  Then the pail had slipped down behind his ears and held fast , so he had run all the way to the Green Forest with it hanging about his neck .  When they got there , there was no Jackal to be seen ; but they saw the great Camel , eating away at the juicy sugar-cane .  I went to the Garden of Love , And saw what I never had seen ; A Chapel was built in the midst , Where I used to play on the green .  She had no resources for solitude ; and inheriting a considerable share of the Elliot self-importance , was very prone to add to every other distress that of fancying herself neglected and ill-used .  No suspicious flourishes now of apology or concern ; it was the language of real feeling towards Mrs. Weston ; and the transition from Highbury to Enscombe , the contrast between the places in some of the first blessings of social life was just enough touched on to shew how keenly it was felt , and how much more might have been said but for the restraints of propriety. -- The charm of her own name was not wanting .  The Sun had won .  From a reverie of this kind , as she sat at her drawing-table , she was roused one morning , soon after Edward 's leaving them , by the arrival of company .  It will not be so great a loss of time : but if you dislike it -- ''  There was no triumph , no pitiful triumph in his manner .  `` How strange this is !  `` Oh , please , dear , strong Mr Whale , '' he said , `` will you have the great kindness to do me a favour ?  `` The outside strip is for flowers , '' said Margery 's father , `` and next is a footpath , all the way round the beds ; that is to let you get at the flowers to weed and to pick ; there is a wider path through the middle , and the rest is for rows of salad vegetables . ''  `` I am sorry there should be any thing like doubt in the case , '' replied Emma ; `` but am disposed to side with you , Mr. Weston .  The other circumstance of regret related also to Jane Fairfax ; and there she had no doubt .  `` How do you like Mrs .  `` It is hotter to-day . ''  she cried , `` I have such a secret to tell you about Marianne .  Her manners were by no means so elegant as her sister 's , but they were much more prepossessing .  However , we may as well go and sit with them a little while , and when we have that over , we can enjoy our walk . ''  Why a Tongue impress 'd with honey from every wind ?  Whether former feelings were to be renewed must be brought to the proof ; former times must undoubtedly be brought to the recollection of each ; they could not but be reverted to ; the year of their engagement could not but be named by him , in the little narratives or descriptions which conversation called forth .  A blush overspread Anne 's cheeks .  she replied with a smile of astonishment , `` are you imagining me to be Mr. Elton 's object ? ''  Knightley . ''  a snail as large as a calf !  I thought I heard a carriage last night , while we were drinking our tea , but it never entered my head that it could be them .  She was poor , but she was strong , and knew how to work .  `` What 's 'dicotyledonous ' ? ''  `` Yes , '' sighed Anne , `` we shall , indeed , be known to be related to them ! ''  Amongst the objects in the scene , they soon discovered an animated one ; it was a man on horseback riding towards them .  But as soon as it could walk the little Half-Chick showed a most headstrong spirit , worse than any of its brothers .  `` Will you give me the Emperor 's gold crown for a song ? ''  If we were all like you , I believe we might sit four .  said Sir John .  `` A man of whom he had always had such reason to think well !  Shall I take any message ? ''  It was some days before she saw Jane Fairfax , to judge of her honest regret in this woeful change ; but when they did meet , her composure was odious .  Do not be overpowered by such a little tribute of admiration .  `` Till I have a letter from Colonel Campbell , '' said she , in a voice of forced calmness , `` I can imagine nothing with any confidence .  She never mentioned it before , because she would not alarm us .  how can you talk so ?  `` No , '' said he , smiling , `` that is no subject of regret at all .  Confess , Marianne , is not there something interesting to you in the flushed cheek , hollow eye , and quick pulse of a fever ? ''  The impossibility of her quitting her father , Mr. Knightley felt as strongly as herself ; but the inadmissibility of any other change , he could not agree to .  `` No. -- He thinks Marianne 's affection too deeply rooted for any change in it under a great length of time , and even supposing her heart again free , is too diffident of himself to believe , that with such a difference of age and disposition he could ever attach her .  said the others .  But her promise of relating it to her sister was invariably painful .  Elinor 's lips had moved with her mother 's , and , when the moment of action was over , she wished that she had shaken hands with him too .  Pray , pray let me hear it . ''  THE LAMB Little Lamb , who make thee Dost thou know who made thee , Gave thee life , and bid thee feed By the stream and o'er the mead ; Gave thee clothing of delight , Softest clothing , wolly , bright ; Gave thee such a tender voice , Making all the vales rejoice ?  She was not sorry .  You could not give me a greater reproof for the mistake I fell into .  `` Dear affectionate creature ! -- _You_ banished to Abbey-Mill Farm ! -- _You_ confined to the society of the illiterate and vulgar all your life !  She saw their sashes untied , their hair pulled about their ears , their work-bags searched , and their knives and scissors stolen away , and felt no doubt of its being a reciprocal enjoyment .  How many a man has committed himself on a short acquaintance , and rued it all the rest of his life ! ''  They are good-natured people , and think little of their own claims ; but still they must feel that any body 's hurrying away is no great compliment ; and Miss Woodhouse 's doing it would be more thought of than any other person 's in the room .  `` Yes , ma'am , I just see him leaning back in it , but he did not look up ; -- he never was a gentleman much for talking . ''  I hope you have pleasant accounts from Windsor ? ''  Perry does not call it altogether a sickly season . ''  He had never walked anywhere arm-in-arm with Colonel Wallis ( who was a fine military figure , though sandy-haired ) without observing that every woman 's eye was upon him ; every woman 's eye was sure to be upon Colonel Wallis . ''  I am much concerned to find there was anything in my behaviour last night that did not meet your approbation ; and though I am quite at a loss to discover in what point I could be so unfortunate as to offend you , I entreat your forgiveness of what I can assure you to have been perfectly unintentional .  And so excellent in the Church !  `` And , father , how can I love you Or any of my brothers more ?  `` Charles may say what he pleases , '' cried Mary to Anne , as soon as he was out of the room , `` but it would be shocking to have Henrietta marry Charles Hayter ; a very bad thing for her , and still worse for me ; and therefore it is very much to be wished that Captain Wentworth may soon put him quite out of her head , and I have very little doubt that he has .  `` And I , '' said the Olive , `` I will sprinkle sweet-smelling oil over Him . ''  and this dear parlour in which our acquaintance first began , and in which so many happy hours have been since spent by us together , you would degrade to the condition of a common entrance , and every body would be eager to pass through the room which has hitherto contained within itself more real accommodation and comfort than any other apartment of the handsomest dimensions in the world could possibly afford . ''  `` A great many things , I assure you .  It was a delightful visit ; -- perfect , in being much too short .  `` Having understood as much , I was rather astonished to find her so very lady-like !  They have more gentleness .  he was surprised at that ; '' and added , `` certainly you can not do better than to continue as you are ; you can not be better than well ; or I should recommend Gowland , the constant use of Gowland , during the spring months .  Thy ready wit the word will soon supply .  But , of course , as you know very well , there was n't any other lion !  He did n't need to be told whose voice that was .  Mrs Musgrove interposed .  `` Will you ? ''  Anger sometimes makes the hair on the back and neck of Bowser the Hound and of some other little people bristle and stand up , and you know the hair on the tail of Black Pussy stands on end until her tail looks twice as big as it really is .  [ Illustration ] Her father kissed her , and said it was certainly her `` very own . ''  Now there 's Mr. Rose at Exeter , a prodigious smart young man , quite a beau , clerk to Mr. Simpson , you know , and yet if you do but meet him of a morning , he is not fit to be seen. -- I suppose your brother was quite a beau , Miss Dashwood , before he married , as he was so rich ? ''  A pleasant `` thank you '' seemed meant to laugh it off , but a blush , a quivering lip , a tear in the eye , shewed that it was felt beyond a laugh .  Who would submit to the indignity of being approved by such a woman as Lady Middleton and Mrs. Jennings , that could command the indifference of any body else ? ''  I do not pretend to it .  What is it ? ''  Better accommodations , he can promise them , and not a less grateful welcome than at Randalls .  There is something I ought to have at this time of year , and I have n't got it .  In her letters I shall be at dear Highbury again . ''  Thy ready wit the word will soon supply , May its approval beam in that soft eye !  The sisters set out at a pace , slow as the feebleness of Marianne in an exercise hitherto untried since her illness required ; -- and they had advanced only so far beyond the house as to admit a full view of the hill , the important hill behind , when pausing with her eyes turned towards it , Marianne calmly said ,  `` Putting all these very extraordinary circumstances together , '' said Captain Wentworth , `` we must consider it to be the arrangement of Providence , that you should not be introduced to your cousin . ''  `` Some very fine morning , he , and Emma , and Harriet , could go very well ; and he could sit still with Mrs. Weston , while the dear girls walked about the gardens .  She felt immediately that she should like him ; and there was a well-bred ease of manner , and a readiness to talk , which convinced her that he came intending to be acquainted with her , and that acquainted they soon must be .  --  Mr. Harris , who attended her every day , still talked boldly of a speedy recovery , and Miss Dashwood was equally sanguine ; but the expectation of the others was by no means so cheerful .  Miss Bates said a great deal ; Mrs. Elton swelled at the idea of Miss Woodhouse 's presiding ; Mr. Knightley 's answer was the most distinct .  `` Roll !  He was welcomed by them all with great cordiality , but especially by Marianne , who showed more warmth of regard in her reception of him than even Elinor herself .  He seems perfectly unprepared for that . ''  Margery asked .  But David looked at him , and answered , `` Thou comest to me with a sword , and with a spear , and with a shield ; but I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts , the God of the armies of Israel , whom thou hast defied .  He was king .  `` In the summer , '' he said , `` when the sun is hot , men come and sit in the cool of my shade and refresh themselves with the fruit of my branches .  They were scarcely ever without some friends staying with them in the house , and they kept more company of every kind than any other family in the neighbourhood .  I have only to hope that they may be proportionately short .  And when he does , Mary , you may depend upon hearing my opinion ; but I am determined not to judge him beforehand . ''  Miss Woodhouse , believe me I have not the presumption to suppose -- Indeed I am not so mad. -- But it is a pleasure to me to admire him at a distance -- and to think of his infinite superiority to all the rest of the world , with the gratitude , wonder , and veneration , which are so proper , in me especially . ''  Upon my word it is enough to put one in a fright .  Perry 's setting up his carriage !  `` Oh !  She could not foresee that Colonel Brandon would give me a living . ''  Frank Churchill turned towards her to listen .  When the plan was made known to Mary , however , there was an end of all peace in it .  `` No , '' said Marianne , in a low voice , `` nor how many painful moments . ''  Her flattery had already subdued the pride of Lady Middleton , and made an entry into the close heart of Mrs. John Dashwood ; and these were effects that laid open the probability of greater .  An ' Fox he whipped her up , An ' pit her in his bag , An ' off he started all alone , Him and his little dag .  But , fair or not fair , there are unbecoming conjunctions , which reason will patronize in vain -- which taste can not tolerate -- which ridicule will seize .  `` I said , '' said the Brahmin , raising his voice , `` do you think it is fair that the Tiger should eat me , when I set him free from his cage ? ''  It was an unaccountable business .  `` I am afraid Jane is not very well , '' said she , `` but I do not know ; they _tell_ me she is well .  Her face was averted from those who had made the attack , and turned towards her aunt .  He had seen Mrs Croft , too ; she was at Taunton with the admiral , and had been present almost all the time they were talking the matter over .  And not sit both night and day , Wiping all our tears away ?  It was very natural for you to say , what right has he to lecture me ? -- and I am afraid very natural for you to feel that it was done in a disagreeable manner .  It was , indeed , so odd ; Harriet 's behaviour was so extremely odd , that Emma did not know how to understand it .  `` No , ma'am .  It might be him , perhaps . ''  `` Yes , she would be , but that she thinks there will be another put-off .  They are eating only the crickets ! ''  This will be complete enjoyment ; and I do not know , Mrs. Elton , whether the uncertainty of our meetings , the sort of constant expectation there will be of his coming in to-day or to-morrow , and at any hour , may not be more friendly to happiness than having him actually in the house .  cried Emma , not attending to her. -- '' Mrs .  As she reflected more , she seemed but to feel it more .  The tailor went then till he came to the place where the other giant was , and asked did he want a servant-boy .  `` Did you say that you had something to tell me , sir ? ''  The farmer came to-day and said , 'The corn is getting too ripe ; we can not wait for our neighbours ; we must ask our relatives to help us . '  I forget what we are to have next , '' turning to the bill .  You had it from himself , had you ? ''  `` It is very pretty , '' said Mr. Woodhouse .  Mrs. Palmer had her child , and Mrs. Jennings her carpet-work ; they talked of the friends they had left behind , arranged Lady Middleton 's engagements , and wondered whether Mr. Palmer and Colonel Brandon would get farther than Reading that night .  LITTLE GOTTLIEB Across the North Sea , in a country called Germany , lived a little boy named Gottlieb .  You are so kind ! ''  `` Nay , Mamma , if he is not to be animated by Cowper ! -- but we must allow for difference of taste .  Poor Mr. Edward !  That was what I said immediately. -- I was most uncommonly shocked , indeed ! -- Poor Edward ! -- he has done for himself completely -- shut himself out for ever from all decent society ! -- but , as I directly said to my mother , I am not in the least surprised at it ; from his style of education , it was always to be expected .  Dixon. -- Very well .  Mr. Churchill had made a point of it , as a token of respect to the wife he had so very recently lost ; and every body admitted it to be no more than due decorum . ''  It is so much beyond any thing I deserve .  One is so fenced and guarded from the weather , that not a breath of air can find its way unpermitted .  how the Little Fir Tree pricked up his needles !  `` A woman of seven and twenty , '' said Marianne , after pausing a moment , `` can never hope to feel or inspire affection again , and if her home be uncomfortable , or her fortune small , I can suppose that she might bring herself to submit to the offices of a nurse , for the sake of the provision and security of a wife .  It's lucky I caught what I did .  Indeed , brother , your anxiety for our welfare and prosperity carries you too far . ''  `` However it may have come about , '' said Elinor , after a pause , -- '' they are certainly married .  `` I am sorry for that .  The sole grievance and alloy thus removed in the prospect of Harriet 's welfare , she was really in danger of becoming too happy for security. -- What had she to wish for ?  said the little Gingerbread Boy , `` I am a quarter gone ! ''  But from one cause or another , I gave it up in disgust .  Much beyond my hopes .  I was quite surprized ; -- very glad , I am sure ; but really quite surprized .  But Mrs. Dashwood , trusting to the temperate account of her own disappointment which Elinor had sent her , was led away by the exuberance of her joy to think only of what would increase it .  cried his wife. -- '' My dear Mr. E. , you have not been to Donwell ! -- You mean the Crown ; you come from the meeting at the Crown . ''  Emma was extremely confused .  The first Jolly Little Sunbeams had only reached the Green Meadows and had not started to creep into the Green Forest , when he saw a big , dark form steal out of the Green Forest where it joins the Old Pasture .  -- '' She believed he was reckoned a very fine young man . ''  `` To London ! -- and are you going this morning ? ''  The Lark raised his drooping head .  It was THAT which threw this gloom , -- even now the recollection of what I suffered -- ''  Elton ? ''  A moment 's reflection shewed her the mistake she had been under .  Elinor agreed to it all , for she did not think he deserved the compliment of rational opposition .  CHAPTER VIII  Anne felt that she did not belong to the conversation , and yet , as Captain Harville seemed thoughtful and not disposed to talk , she could not avoid hearing many undesirable particulars ; such as , `` how Mr Musgrove and my brother Hayter had met again and again to talk it over ; what my brother Hayter had said one day , and what Mr Musgrove had proposed the next , and what had occurred to my sister Hayter , and what the young people had wished , and what I said at first I never could consent to , but was afterwards persuaded to think might do very well , '' and a great deal in the same style of open-hearted communication : minutiae which , even with every advantage of taste and delicacy , which good Mrs Musgrove could not give , could be properly interesting only to the principals .  He looked with smiling penetration ; and , on receiving no answer , added , `` _She_ ought not to be angry with you , I suspect , whatever he may be. -- To that surmise , you say nothing , of course ; but confess , Emma , that you did want him to marry Harriet . ''  Why did not you ask the Gilberts to come to us today ? ''  It would have been such a great pity to have went away before your brother and sister came .  I see nobody else looking like her ! -- I must go and ask her whether it is an Irish fashion .  They must not do less than others , or she should be exposed to odious suspicions , and imagined capable of pitiful resentment .  I remember it was written from Weymouth , and dated Sept. 28th -- and began , `My dear Madam , ' but I forget how it went on ; and it was signed `F. C. Weston Churchill . '  I was introducing her into good company , and giving her the opportunity of pleasing some one worth having ; I ought not to have attempted more .  Miss Anne , if it had pleased Heaven to spare my poor son , I dare say he would have been just such another by this time . ''  `` Go to him , go to him , '' cried Anne , `` for heaven 's sake go to him .  Certainly I had been accustomed to every luxury at Maple Grove ; but I did assure him that two carriages were not necessary to my happiness , nor were spacious apartments .  Emma must submit to stand second to Mrs. Elton , though she had always considered the ball as peculiarly for her .  Endless , endless ways there are , that only the Heavenly Father sees .  Lord !  Hazle eyes excepted , two years more might make her all that he wished .  The sight of you , Edward , is the only comfort it has afforded ; and thank Heaven !  It inspired little more than an animating curiosity .  he said , -- `` I have run away from a little old woman , `` A little old man , `` A cow , `` A horse , `` A barn full of threshers , `` And I can run away from you , I can ! ''  Either in the morning or evening of every day , excepting one , have we seen either Mr. Weston or Mrs. Weston , and generally both , either at Randalls or here -- and as you may suppose , Isabella , most frequently here .  By that time , Marianne was rather better , and her mother leaving her to the care of Margaret and the maid , returned to Elinor , who , though still much disordered , had so far recovered the use of her reason and voice as to be just beginning an inquiry of Thomas , as to the source of his intelligence .  And all thy moans flew o'er my roof , but I have call 'd them down : Wilt thou O Queen enter my house , tis given thee to enter , And to return : fear nothing , enter with thy virgin feet .  `` I have escaped ; and that I should escape , may be a matter of grateful wonder to you and myself .  `` And , upon my word , they have an air of great probability .  But now I have no doubt of seeing him here about the second week in January . ''  -- Bad enough as it is , for I absolutely neglect them both to an unpardonable degree. -- I believe I have not played a bar this fortnight. -- However , he is coming , I assure you : yes , indeed , on purpose to wait on you all . ''  In this state of suspense they were befriended , not by any sudden illumination of Mr. Woodhouse 's mind , or any wonderful change of his nervous system , but by the operation of the same system in another way. -- Mrs. Weston 's poultry-house was robbed one night of all her turkeys -- evidently by the ingenuity of man .  In fact , as I have long been convinced , though every profession is necessary and honourable in its turn , it is only the lot of those who are not obliged to follow any , who can live in a regular way , in the country , choosing their own hours , following their own pursuits , and living on their own property , without the torment of trying for more ; it is only their lot , I say , to hold the blessings of health and a good appearance to the utmost : I know no other set of men but what lose something of their personableness when they cease to be quite young . ''  But by coolly giving the reins a better direction herself they happily passed the danger ; and by once afterwards judiciously putting out her hand they neither fell into a rut , nor ran foul of a dung-cart ; and Anne , with some amusement at their style of driving , which she imagined no bad representation of the general guidance of their affairs , found herself safely deposited by them at the Cottage .  `` No -- nor many weeks . ''  She opened her mouth , -- and fell to the ground .  `` Oh !  High on the hilltop The old King sits ; He is now so old and gray , He 's nigh lost his wits .  Does not she , Jane ? -- Do not we often talk of Mr. Frank Churchill ? -- Ah !  At last the old Fox thought out a way to catch the little Red Hen .  This was Mr. Elton !  I have formed my plan , and am determined to enter on a course of serious study .  Her father was a grazier , her grandfather had been a butcher , but that was all nothing .  I do indeed .  `` Ah !  He very much feared that Miss Fairfax derived more evil than good from them .  And Jane will have such another .  Born to the prospect of such affluence !  And , as to procuring a dispensation , there could be no difficulty at his time of life , and with his character .  Stop ! ''  `` Anne , '' cried Mary , still at her window , `` there is Mrs Clay , I am sure , standing under the colonnade , and a gentleman with her .  The Burgomaster opened the envelope , and as he read the letter written in the trembling hand of a child , tears came into his eyes .  And suppose you had the habit of talking to yourself .  They seem to satisfy every body else . ''  Use those words again , and I will leave the room this moment . ''  She was so surprized she did not know what to do .  Time had changed him , or Louisa had changed him .  `` Not at all . ''  But do not imagine that I want to influence you . ''  She had an opportunity now of speaking her approbation while warm from her heart , for he stopped to hand her out .  He had just parted from my sister , had seen her leave him in the greatest affliction ; and if he felt obliged , from a fear of offending Mrs. Smith , to resist the temptation of returning here soon , and yet aware that by declining your invitation , by saying that he was going away for some time , he should seem to act an ungenerous , a suspicious part by our family , be might well be embarrassed and disturbed .  One day last spring , in town , I was in company with two men , striking instances of what I am talking of ; Lord St Ives , whose father we all know to have been a country curate , without bread to eat ; I was to give place to Lord St Ives , and a certain Admiral Baldwin , the most deplorable-looking personage you can imagine ; his face the colour of mahogany , rough and rugged to the last degree ; all lines and wrinkles , nine grey hairs of a side , and nothing but a dab of powder at top .  `` I should not have thought it possible , '' she began , `` that you could have misunderstood me !  And I wept both night and day , And he wiped my tears away ; And I wept both day and night , And hid from him my heart 's delight .  She took the first opportunity of affronting her mother-in-law on the occasion , talking to her so expressively of her brother 's great expectations , of Mrs. Ferrars 's resolution that both her sons should marry well , and of the danger attending any young woman who attempted to DRAW HIM IN ; that Mrs. Dashwood could neither pretend to be unconscious , nor endeavor to be calm .  Poor Mr. Woodhouse was silent from consternation ; but every body else had something to say ; every body was either surprized or not surprized , and had some question to ask , or some comfort to offer .  She is still nearer. -- And I do not know whether Miss Bates is not as likely to understand the inclinations of the rest of the people as any body .  She believed every body spoke well of him .  Anne could just acknowledge within herself such a possibility of having been induced to marry him , as made her shudder at the idea of the misery which must have followed .  The private balls at the park then began ; and parties on the water were made and accomplished as often as a showery October would allow .  Mr. Dashwood 's disappointment was , at first , severe ; but his temper was cheerful and sanguine ; and he might reasonably hope to live many years , and by living economically , lay by a considerable sum from the produce of an estate already large , and capable of almost immediate improvement .  Would not Harriet be the very creature described ?  They dined with us last . ''  Mr. Weston , I dare say , has been telling you exactly how the matter stands ? ''  At last the handle broke , and he was free !  Mr. Weston entered into the idea with thorough enjoyment , and Mrs. Weston most willingly undertook to play as long as they could wish to dance ; and the interesting employment had followed , of reckoning up exactly who there would be , and portioning out the indispensable division of space to every couple .  Harry was vastly pleased .  every plant has just two tiny leaves on it , and shaped the same ; they are roundish , and grow out of the stem at the same place . ''  His setting off in such a hurry seems very like it .  In the great banquet room , the king sat , wearing his royal robes and his crown , while many subjects came to greet him .  `` These little leaves , '' he said , `` are not the real leaves of the plant ; they are only little pockets to hold food for the plant to live on till it gets strong enough to push up into the air .  and Elsa would have to say , `` I do n't know . ''  And besides the operation of this , as a general principle , you may be sure that Miss Fairfax awes Mrs. Elton by her superiority both of mind and manner ; and that , face to face , Mrs. Elton treats her with all the respect which she has a claim to .  Harriet had been conscious of a difference in his behaviour ever since those two decisive dances. -- Emma knew that he had , on that occasion , found her much superior to his expectation .  But it was more probable that he should be come to stay .  Anne would have been particularly obliged to her cousin , if he would have walked by her side all the way to Camden Place , without saying a word .  Cole . ''  said Little Jack Rollaround .  Miss Woodhouse , why are you always so right ? ''  Both seemed to look to her for directions .  I have had all my own little concerns to arrange , books and music to divide , and all my trunks to repack , from not having understood in time what was intended as to the waggons : and one thing I have had to do , Mary , of a more trying nature : going to almost every house in the parish , as a sort of take-leave .  `` It is not every one , '' said Elinor , `` who has your passion for dead leaves . ''  It came out quite unawares , quite undesignedly .  The hand writing of her mother , never till then unwelcome , was before her ; and , in the acuteness of the disappointment which followed such an ecstasy of more than hope , she felt as if , till that instant , she had never suffered .  `` How is Mary ? ''  As the blow was given , Emma felt that she could not now shew greater kindness than in listening ; and Harriet , unchecked , ran eagerly through what she had to tell .  And Mrs Musgrove took the first opportunity of being alone with Anne , to say , `` Oh !  added Miss Steele .  The nature of her commendation , in the present case , however , happened to be particularly ill-suited to the feelings of two thirds of her auditors , and was so very unexhilarating to Edward , that he very soon got up to go away .  The beginning , however , of every visit displayed none but the properest feelings , and this being of necessity so short might be hoped to pass away in unsullied cordiality .  said Buster Bear to Little Joe Otter , `` I believe he was afraid ! ''  Come , Jane , take my other arm . ''  She had heard nothing of him since her leaving London , nothing new of his plans , nothing certain even of his present abode .  there was no end of Miss Elliot 's charms . ''  Elinor only was sorry to see them .  `` Whoever might be her parents , '' said Mr. Knightley , `` whoever may have had the charge of her , it does not appear to have been any part of their plan to introduce her into what you would call good society .  The conclusion of her visit , however , was diversified in a way which she had not at all imagined .  Mrs. Weston 's partiality for him is very great , and , as you may suppose , most gratifying to me .  `` Offended me !  `` I have none of the usual inducements of women to marry .  The strength , resolution , and presence of mind of the Mr. Knightleys , commanded his fullest dependence .  And Mrs. Jennings too , an exceedingly well-behaved woman , though not so elegant as her daughter .  `` Ay , if we can do THAT , Ma'am , '' said Elinor , `` we shall do very well with or without Colonel Brandon . ''  You can make little Charles do anything ; he always minds you at a word .  They are very , very kind in their visits .  The power of observation would be soon given -- frightfully soon it appeared when her thoughts were in one course .  Men have had every advantage of us in telling their own story .  It is not in the smallest degree connected with any human being of the name of Knightley . ''  `` Ca n't I , though ! ''  But are you really so attached to this place as to see no defect in it ? ''  With a letter in her outstretched hand , and countenance gaily smiling , from the persuasion of bringing comfort , she entered their room , saying ,  Backward went the crab .  Pretty soon the butter began to melt .  very well , '' exclaimed Miss Bates , `` then I need not be uneasy .  Dixon ? ''  Mr. Elton is going to be married . ''  I had quite determined to go away again . ''  said Mr. Woodhouse , always the last to make his way in conversation ; `` then give me leave to assure you that you will find her a very agreeable young lady .  But Mrs Musgrove , who got Anne near her on purpose to thank her most cordially , again and again , for all her attentions to them , concluded a short recapitulation of what she had suffered herself by observing , with a happy glance round the room , that after all she had gone through , nothing was so likely to do her good as a little quiet cheerfulness at home .  With such a knowledge as this , it was impossible for Elinor to feel easy on the subject .  As his servants left him , to carry out the wicked order , there was a clash , as of thunder , in the room , and then a blinding light .  I had been grossly wrong , and must abide the consequences . ''  Anne had never submitted more reluctantly to the jealous and ill-judging claims of Mary ; but so it must be , and they set off for the town , Charles taking care of his sister , and Captain Benwick attending to her .  Farmer Brown 's boy looked over there as if he wondered what all that fuss was about , as indeed he did , but he did n't start to go over and see .  `` No .  Then , instead of keeping on to the little pool , he hurried to a place way down the Laughing Brook , where the water was very shallow , hardly over his feet , and there he sat chuckling to himself .  Do you suppose him really indifferent to her ? ''  she said .  -- Then having recourse to her workbasket , in excuse for leaning down her face , and concealing all the exquisite feelings of delight and entertainment which she knew she must be expressing , she added , `` Well , now tell me every thing ; make this intelligible to me .  It was curious , that having just left you behind me in Bath , my first and principal acquaintance on marrying should be your cousin ; and that , through him , I should be continually hearing of your father and sister .  `` We have made very few changes either , '' continued the Admiral , after thinking a moment .  To the left is Barton park , amongst those woods and plantations .  `` We may treat it as a joke , '' said he , at last , recovering from the affected laugh which had considerably lengthened out the genuine gaiety of the moment -- '' but , upon my soul , it is a most serious business .  But I require no such proof .  I have no faith in Mrs. Elton 's acknowledging herself the inferior in thought , word , or deed ; or in her being under any restraint beyond her own scanty rule of good-breeding .  Nothing occurred during the next three or four days , to make Elinor regret what she had done , in applying to her mother ; for Willoughby neither came nor wrote .  of Uppercross , in the county of Somerset , '' and by inserting most accurately the day of the month on which he had lost his wife .  Perhaps that is what the fish thought he was , for pretty soon , two or three swam right in close to where he was sitting .  The Kellynch estate should be transmitted whole and entire , as he had received it .  These letters were but the vehicle for gallantry and trick .  As long as they lived , no exertions would be necessary , their home might be hers for ever ; and for their own comfort they would have retained her wholly ; but this would be selfishness : -- what must be at last , had better be soon .  Marianne 's preserver , as Margaret , with more elegance than precision , styled Willoughby , called at the cottage early the next morning to make his personal enquiries .  DAVID AND GOLIATH A long time ago , there was a boy named David , who lived in a country in the Far East .  The two families had always been on excellent terms , there being no pride on one side , and no envy on the other , and only such a consciousness of superiority in the Miss Musgroves , as made them pleased to improve their cousins .  `` What is a salad garden ? ''  He had long made up his mind to Jane Fairfax 's going out as governess , and could talk of it cheerfully , but Mr. Knightley 's going to London had been an unexpected blow .  He owed it to her , to risk any thing that might be involved in an unwelcome interference , rather than her welfare ; to encounter any thing , rather than the remembrance of neglect in such a cause .  I wish you had been there to see her behaviour .  Mr. Elton must smile less , and Mr. John Knightley more , to fit them for the place. -- Emma only might be as nature prompted , and shew herself just as happy as she was .  But now , the matter has take the strangest turn of all ; for this young lady , the same Miss Musgrove , instead of being to marry Frederick , is to marry James Benwick .  The choir was chanting the Latin service , and as the beautiful voices swelled louder , the king noticed one particular verse which seemed to be repeated again and again .  Before this time last year I assure you we had had a delightful exploring party from Maple Grove to Kings Weston . ''  But one thing he was sure of , and that was that it was a cry of fright .  She was very feverish and had a bad sore throat : Mrs. Goddard was full of care and affection , Mr. Perry was talked of , and Harriet herself was too ill and low to resist the authority which excluded her from this delightful engagement , though she could not speak of her loss without many tears .  No comparison .  It is always that way .  Good Mrs. Stokes would not know her own room again .  Where Mercy , Love , and Pity dwell , There God is dwelling too .  `` Buster Bear is big and strong ; His teeth are big ; his claws are long ; In spite of these he runs away And hides himself the livelong day ! ''  `` I wish I never had thought of berries , '' growled Buster to himself .  They said them among themselves , and some of them even said them to Buster when they met him , or said them so that he would hear them .  Among such friends , however , and such flattery , he did revive .  `` I may venture to say that HIS observations have stretched much further than your candour .  Knightley . '  I come in for a pretty good share as a second .  `` Is not she looking well ? ''  So we must be as merry as we can , that she may not be dwelling upon such gloomy things . ''  To those who had no resources it was a different thing ; but my resources made me quite independent .  It is a dreadful thing to have you forced to live there !  `` Now stretch out your little useless fingers , dear ! ''  `` They come on the Admiral 's account .  But there was nobody to stir in it .  `` I think , Edward , '' said Mrs. Dashwood , as they were at breakfast the last morning , `` you would be a happier man if you had any profession to engage your time and give an interest to your plans and actions .  Sailors work hard enough for their comforts , we must all allow . ''  Anne , must not it be our Mr Elliot ?  They arrived. -- Mrs .  My dearest Anne , it would give me more delight than is often felt at my time of life ! ''  `` I have frequently detected myself in such kind of mistakes , '' said Elinor , `` in a total misapprehension of character in some point or other : fancying people so much more gay or grave , or ingenious or stupid than they really are , and I can hardly tell why or in what the deception originated .  And he said to the poor mouse , -- `` You shall be my servant ; you shall make my bed and sweep my room and cook my broth . ''  It is the worst evil of too yielding and indecisive a character , that no influence over it can be depended on .  You have difficulties , and privations , and dangers enough to struggle with .  `` Harriet , I will only venture to declare , that Mr. Knightley is the last man in the world , who would intentionally give any woman the idea of his feeling for her more than he really does . ''  After receiving a very indifferent education she is left in Mrs. Goddard 's hands to shift as she can ; -- to move , in short , in Mrs. Goddard 's line , to have Mrs. Goddard 's acquaintance .  As soon as she could , she went after Mary , and having found , and walked back with her to their former station , by the stile , felt some comfort in their whole party being immediately afterwards collected , and once more in motion together .  My regard for her , for yourself , for your mother -- will you allow me to prove it , by relating some circumstances which nothing but a VERY sincere regard -- nothing but an earnest desire of being useful -- I think I am justified -- though where so many hours have been spent in convincing myself that I am right , is there not some reason to fear I may be wrong ? ''  `` I have heard her speak of the acquaintance , '' said Emma ; `` she is a very elegant young woman . ''  Turning back was vain : Soon his heavy mane Bore them to the ground , Then he stalked around , Smelling to his prey ; But their fears allay When he licks their hands , And silent by them stands .  There had been three alternatives , London , Bath , or another house in the country .  To avoid a comparative poverty , which her affection and her society would have deprived of all its horrors , I have , by raising myself to affluence , lost every thing that could make it a blessing . ''  One thing more , and all seemed arranged .  The most unaccountable business !  To take her -- be it only an hour or two -- from her aunt , to give her change of air and scene , and quiet rational conversation , even for an hour or two , might do her good ; and the following morning she wrote again to say , in the most feeling language she could command , that she would call for her in the carriage at any hour that Jane would name -- mentioning that she had Mr. Perry 's decided opinion , in favour of such exercise for his patient .  Scenes had passed in Uppercross which made it precious .  Witness this very time .  If I had followed her judgment , and subdued my spirits to the level of what she deemed proper , I should have escaped the greatest unhappiness I have ever known. -- We quarrelled. -- Do you remember the morning spent at Donwell ? -- _There_ every little dissatisfaction that had occurred before came to a crisis .  Their road to this detached cottage was down Vicarage Lane , a lane leading at right angles from the broad , though irregular , main street of the place ; and , as may be inferred , containing the blessed abode of Mr. Elton .  But as he went , he sang , -- `` Thank you , Mr Alligator !  Mr and Mrs Musgrove were a very good sort of people ; friendly and hospitable , not much educated , and not at all elegant .  Now the Water grew warm , hot , hotter , frightfully hot ; the little Half-Chick cried out , `` Do not burn so hot , Fire !  She had received a very recent proof of its impartiality. -- How shocked had he been by her behaviour to Miss Bates !  In Lady Russell 's view , it was perfectly natural that Mr Elliot , at a mature time of life , should feel it a most desirable object , and what would very generally recommend him among all sensible people , to be on good terms with the head of his family ; the simplest process in the world of time upon a head naturally clear , and only erring in the heyday of youth .  `` I should say so , but that I suppose there may be a hundred different ways of being in love .  I have no pleasure in the sort of meeting , and should be too happy to change it for a play , and with you .  My Emma , does not every thing serve to prove more and more the beauty of truth and sincerity in all our dealings with each other ? ''  `` Oh !  said the prince , crossly .  It will be the only difference . ''  `` This , '' said she , `` is nearly the sense , or rather the meaning of the words , for certainly the sense of an Italian love-song must not be talked of , but it is as nearly the meaning as I can give ; for I do not pretend to understand the language .  `` I am very much obliged to you , '' said Emma , laughing again .  Presently , as he came along , he saw that the ground was all raked up as if something very heavy had been dragged over it .  And it smoked and burned till it smoked that old Alligator to smoked herring !  He was gone immediately ; and Emma soon saw him standing before Miss Fairfax , and talking to her ; but as to its effect on the young lady , as he had improvidently placed himself exactly between them , exactly in front of Miss Fairfax , she could absolutely distinguish nothing .  `` As good a kind of fellow as ever lived , I assure you .  It was great fun .  Her systems have all the unfortunate tendency of setting propriety at nought ; and a better acquaintance with the world is what I look forward to as her greatest possible advantage . ''  I like him very much .  `` But it is never safe to sit out of doors , my dear . ''  `` I am very glad you were well enough , and I hope you had a pleasant party . ''  said Colonel Brandon , `` there is , indeed !  An admiral speaks his own consequence , and , at the same time , can never make a baronet look small .  SONGS OF EXPERIENCE INTRODUCTION Hear the voice of the Bard , Who present , past , and future , sees ; Whose ears have heard The Holy Word That walked among the ancient tree ; Calling the lapsed soul , And weeping in the evening dew ; That might control The starry pole , And fallen , fallen light renew !  He had seen the coachmen , and they both agreed with him in there being nothing to apprehend .  The carriage would not accommodate so many .  No hurry for a signal at all .  he could spare so considerable a sum with little inconvenience . ''  It had seemed like a great joke to Buster Bear , and he had chuckled over it all the time he was eating the fat trout .  It was well to have a comfort in store on Harriet 's behalf , though it might be wise to let the fancy touch it seldom ; for evil in that quarter was at hand .  `` Come Colonel , '' said Mrs. Jennings , `` before you go , do let us know what you are going about . ''  wait a bit , little Gingerbread Boy , we wish to eat you ! ''  I have the honour of being acquainted with a neighbour of yours , ( turning to Emma , ) a lady residing in or near Highbury ; a family of the name of Fairfax .  She looked instinctively at Lady Russell ; but not from any mad idea of her recognising him so soon as she did herself .  The connection was certainly a respectable one , and probably gained her consideration among her friends ; and , if nothing more advantageous occurred , it would be better for her to marry YOU than be single . ''  Cole was saying the other day she wanted something from Kingston . ''  From that moment , Emma could have taken her oath that Mr. Knightley had had no concern in giving the instrument .  There came a time when the Fomorians and the golden-haired men were at war ; and in the midst of a great battle , while the Dagda 's hall was not so well guarded as usual , some of the chieftains of the Fomorians stole the great harp from the wall , where it hung , and fled away with it .  Her recent good offices by Anne had been enough in themselves , and their marriage , instead of depriving her of one friend , secured her two .  The cold repast was over , and the party were to go out once more to see what had not yet been seen , the old Abbey fish-ponds ; perhaps get as far as the clover , which was to be begun cutting on the morrow , or , at any rate , have the pleasure of being hot , and growing cool again. -- Mr .  In showing kindness to his cousins therefore he had the real satisfaction of a good heart ; and in settling a family of females only in his cottage , he had all the satisfaction of a sportsman ; for a sportsman , though he esteems only those of his sex who are sportsmen likewise , is not often desirous of encouraging their taste by admitting them to a residence within his own manor .  What I am now doing indeed , seems nothing at all , since it can advance him so little towards what must be his principal , his only object of happiness .  ( The path . )  And she named him Moses .  I could very ill be spared -- but such a point had been made of my coming !  She was particularly asked to meet Mr Elliot , and be introduced to Lady Dalrymple and Miss Carteret , who were fortunately already engaged to come ; and she could not have received a more gratifying attention .  He had been remarkably handsome in his youth ; and , at fifty-four , was still a very fine man .  These were some of the thoughts which occupied Anne , while her fingers were mechanically at work , proceeding for half an hour together , equally without error , and without consciousness .  `` I confess that I do think there is a disparity , too great a disparity , and in a point no less essential than mind .  When he questioned , Sir Walter and Elizabeth began to question also , but the difference in their manner of doing it could not be unfelt .  It was very early in September ; the season was fine , and from first seeing the place under the advantage of good weather , they received an impression in its favour which was of material service in recommending it to their lasting approbation .  It confesses that you have long understood me . ''  My cow is stuck in the mud , a quarter of a mile from here .  This was the page at which the favourite volume always opened :  weep ! ''  Now , Mr. Knightley , a word or two more , and I have done .  Emma thought first of herself , and then of Harriet .  Now must we grind with all our might -- and , behold !  Only to Honiton .  I have brought you a gift ; it is not wonderful to look at , but it has a wonderful power for your welfare ; wear it , and let it help you . ''  red warriors come forth -- and revenge , and bloodshed , and ruin . ''  So he put on as pleasant a voice as he could ( which is not saying much ) and said , -- `` Hullo , little Jackal ! ''  Hardly fit for service then .  Emma could not regret her having gone to Miss Bates , but she wished she had left her ten minutes earlier ; -- it would have been a great pleasure to talk over Jane Fairfax 's situation with Mr .  And Miss Bates was obliged to give a direct answer before he would hear her in any thing else .  After he had thrown out all the turf , he shovelled clean earth on to the garden , -- as much as three solid inches of it ; not a bit of grass was in that .  Elinor felt all the reasonableness of the idea , and it gave fresh misery to her reflections .  `` No .  My first care , when I DID arrive , was of course to seek for her ; but the search was as fruitless as it was melancholy .  In a trice , they were transported to the prince 's palace , where King Suliman greeted them with tears of joy .  Inside was an artificial bird , something like a Nightingale , only it was made of gold , and silver , and rubies , and emeralds , and diamonds .  A room or two can easily be added ; and if my friends find no difficulty in travelling so far to see me , I am sure I will find none in accommodating them . ''  said the fox .  Why should there be any change ? ''  I should deserve utter contempt if I dared to suppose that true attachment and constancy were known only by woman .  Kind Mr Alligator !  One can not love a reserved person . ''  Frank was standing by her , but not steadily ; there was a restlessness , which shewed a mind not at ease .  Do but look , mama , how sweet !  What a blessing it is , when undue influence does not survive the grave ! -- He gave his consent with very little persuasion . ''  I know enough of music to speak decidedly on that point .  and to see you in such excellent looks ! -- I would not have missed this meeting for the world .  `` It was you , and not your sister , I find , that my brother had the pleasure of being acquainted with , when he was in this country . ''  Pity and shame leaped up , for the first time , within me .  said he , turning his eyes towards Jane .  Elinor , while she waited in silence and immovable gravity , the conclusion of such folly , could not restrain her eyes from being fixed on him with a look that spoke all the contempt it excited .  He walked off to find his father , but was quickly back again with both Mr. and Mrs. Weston .  On the contrary , her plans and proceedings were more and more justified and endeared to her by the general appearances of the next few days .  `` You could not have visited me ! ''  And to go home without Charles , too , without her husband !  Now there would be pleasure in her returning -- Every thing would be a pleasure .  Whether he were overhearing too , she could not determine .  Could I mention any thing more fit to be done , than to go to Mrs. Goddard ?  But you see , every thing turns out for the best .  The clock struck four times , and the new steed began to stir ; as it struck five , he moved a pace forward ; as it struck six , he stopped ; as it struck seven , he turned himself about ; as it struck eight , he began to move backward , away from the castle !  And he is a very clever boy , indeed .  Another pause .  At my time of life opinions are tolerably fixed .  So he whistled as he tramped along , and his whistle was good to hear .  I trust , at least , that you do not think Mr. Knightley looking ill , '' turning her eyes with affectionate anxiety towards her husband .  A widow Mrs Smith lodging in Westgate Buildings !  He saw you then at Lyme , and liked you so well as to be exceedingly pleased to meet with you again in Camden Place , as Miss Anne Elliot , and from that moment , I have no doubt , had a double motive in his visits there .  `` Thank you .  At first he could n't make out just what it was or where it came from .  The truth was , that Elizabeth had been long enough in Bath to understand the importance of a man of such an air and appearance as his .  They were gone , she hoped , to be happy , however oddly constructed such happiness might seem ; as for herself , she was left with as many sensations of comfort , as were , perhaps , ever likely to be hers .  He walked very softly so as not to make a sound .  `` Ao !  `` No , sir , '' cried Emma , `` it confesses no such thing .  No , Emma , your amiable young man can be amiable only in French , not in English .  -- , Pall Mall .  Do as you please . ''  I care for nothing else .  Harriet felt this too much to utter more than a few words of eager exclamation .  Good company requires only birth , education , and manners , and with regard to education is not very nice .  `` Make a place for me now , '' said the white horse , `` by which I can come up out of the hole here , whenever I am hungry . ''  The room they were taken into was the one he chiefly occupied , and looking forwards ; behind it was another with which it immediately communicated ; the door between them was open , and Emma passed into it with the housekeeper to receive her assistance in the most comfortable manner .  `` Mrs Clay , '' said she , warmly , `` never forgets who she is ; and as I am rather better acquainted with her sentiments than you can be , I can assure you , that upon the subject of marriage they are particularly nice , and that she reprobates all inequality of condition and rank more strongly than most people .  Here Anne had often been staying .  I can not remember the time when I did not love Eliza ; and my affection for her , as we grew up , was such , as perhaps , judging from my present forlorn and cheerless gravity , you might think me incapable of having ever felt .  She came away from Marlborough Buildings only on Sunday ; and she it was who told me you were to marry Mr Elliot .  It would place her in the same village with Captain Wentworth , within half a mile of him ; they would have to frequent the same church , and there must be intercourse between the two families .  It is , perhaps , our fate rather than our merit .  So , after a little , he asked the clown , very gently , what his life was , what it had been .  Let him know me to be a friend of yours , and then he will think little of the trouble required , which it is very natural for him now , with so many affairs and engagements of his own , to avoid and get rid of as he can ; very natural , perhaps .  You must be very much altered indeed since we parted , if that could be the case , and you not there .  `` Well , mother , I have done something for you that you will like .  The law was allowed to be genteel enough ; many young men , who had chambers in the Temple , made a very good appearance in the first circles , and drove about town in very knowing gigs .  After a little succession of these sort of debates and consultations , it was settled between Charles and his two sisters , that he and Henrietta should just run down for a few minutes , to see their aunt and cousins , while the rest of the party waited for them at the top of the hill .  Some might think him , and others might think her , the most in luck .  I always fetch the letters when I am here .  `` Indeed , Father Lion , '' he said , `` we meant to come before ; we knew we ought to come before ; and we wanted to come before ; but every time we started to come , a dreadful great lion came out of the woods and roared at us , and frightened us so that we ran away . ''  They were off ; and Emma could breathe .  `` What sort of looking man is Mr .  He maketh me to lie down in green pastures ; he leadeth me beside the still waters .  Can you seriously ask me , Harriet , whether I imagined him attached to another woman at the very time that I was -- tacitly , if not openly -- encouraging you to give way to your own feelings ? -- I never had the slightest suspicion , till within the last hour , of Mr. Frank Churchill 's having the least regard for Jane Fairfax .  Captain Benwick must give up his room to them , and get another bed elsewhere ; and the whole was settled .  We know , on the contrary , that he has so much of both , that he is glad to get rid of them at the idlest haunts in the kingdom .  In that house Elizabeth must be first ; and she was in the habit of such general observance as `` Miss Elliot , '' that any particularity of attention seemed almost impossible .  It is very hard indeed that she should not have a little pleasure , because Miss Dashwood does not wish it .  `` And a very good living it was , '' Charles added : `` only five-and-twenty miles from Uppercross , and in a very fine country : fine part of Dorsetshire .  Her own emotions still kept her fixed .  `` A very fine young man indeed , Mr. Weston .  I used to boast of my own Anne Elliot , and vouch for your being a very different creature from -- ''  They were relieved however , not by her own recollection , but by the good will of Lucy , who believed herself to be inflicting a severe disappointment when she told her that Edward certainly would not be in Harley Street on Tuesday , and even hoped to be carrying the pain still farther by persuading her that he was kept away by the extreme affection for herself , which he could not conceal when they were together .  `` These shall be your servants , Elsa , '' said the grey man ; `` they are faithful and clever , and they will do everything you want them to , just right .  One day the little Half-Chick said , `` Mother , I am off to Madrid , to see the King !  He had strong feelings of family attachment and family honour , without pride or weakness ; he lived with the liberality of a man of fortune , without display ; he judged for himself in everything essential , without defying public opinion in any point of worldly decorum .  Emma gave a start , which did not seem like being prepared -- and her eyes , in eager gaze , said , `` No , this is impossible ! ''  But SOMETIMES they are . ''  As far as good intentions went , we were _both_ right , and I must say that no effects on my side of the argument have yet proved wrong .  He is very old and very wise .  But still I can not imagine she would not be persuaded . ''  Anne sometimes fancied she discerned him at a distance , but he never came .  `` Your sister , I hope , can not be offended , '' said he , `` by the resemblance I have fancied between her and my poor disgraced relation .  She had been solicited , when about two-and-twenty , to change her name , by the young man , who not long afterwards found a more willing mind in her younger sister ; and Lady Russell had lamented her refusal ; for Charles Musgrove was the eldest son of a man , whose landed property and general importance were second in that country , only to Sir Walter 's , and of good character and appearance ; and however Lady Russell might have asked yet for something more , while Anne was nineteen , she would have rejoiced to see her at twenty-two so respectably removed from the partialities and injustice of her father 's house , and settled so permanently near herself .  And now a music stole forth as soft as dreams , and as sweet as joy : it was the magic Music of Sleep .  There were many other men about him , many groups walking the same way , but there was no mistaking him .  Out jumped the little Gingerbread Boy on to the floor , and away he ran , out of the door and down the street !  She did not wish to speak of the pianoforte , she felt too much in the secret herself , to think the appearance of curiosity or interest fair , and therefore purposely kept at a distance ; but by the others , the subject was almost immediately introduced , and she saw the blush of consciousness with which congratulations were received , the blush of guilt which accompanied the name of `` my excellent friend Colonel Campbell . ''  `` I 'll do that for you , '' said the tailor .  And then there was his tail , that funny little tail he is so fond of jerking when he scolds .  I had not considered that my excessive intimacy must have its danger of ill consequence in many ways ; and that I had no right to be trying whether I could attach myself to either of the girls , at the risk of raising even an unpleasant report , were there no other ill effects .  On this point Sir John could give more certain intelligence ; and he told them that Mr. Willoughby had no property of his own in the country ; that he resided there only while he was visiting the old lady at Allenham Court , to whom he was related , and whose possessions he was to inherit ; adding , `` Yes , yes , he is very well worth catching I can tell you , Miss Dashwood ; he has a pretty little estate of his own in Somersetshire besides ; and if I were you , I would not give him up to my younger sister , in spite of all this tumbling down hills .  I am sure your mother will not object to it ; for I have had such good luck in getting my own children off my hands that she will think me a very fit person to have the charge of you ; and if I do n't get one of you at least well married before I have done with you , it shall not be my fault .  This he exclaimed right out loud , for he had just come in sight of the flat stone where the sandwiches should have been , and they were not there .  pleaded the hermit .  We always say what we like to one another . ''  Mrs. John Dashwood saw the packages depart with a sigh : she could not help feeling it hard that as Mrs. Dashwood 's income would be so trifling in comparison with their own , she should have any handsome article of furniture .  `` Low , I am afraid , sir , very low , '' answered his son ; -- '' but we shall be indulgent -- especially to any one who leads the way . ''  `` I have no doubt of its being our carriage with Miss Bates and Jane .  Poor Elinor ! -- here was a new scheme for getting her to Delaford ! -- but her spirit was stubborn .  But I dare say you will go for all that .  But every blessed one who heard Sammy this morning stopped whatever he was doing and pricked up his ears to listen .  You provide for the family , you know , ( with a smile at his father ) .  `` I wonder , '' thought Buster , `` if some one has stolen Sammy 's breakfast , or if he has stolen the breakfast of some one else .  He was gone the next moment : -- after another moment 's pause ,  Captain Wentworth looked round at her instantly in a way which shewed his noticing of it .  His errand at Barton , in fact , was a simple one .  Kellynch Hall was to be let .  And in this style he talked on for some time very properly , not much attending to any answer , but altogether sufficiently awake to the terror of a bad sore throat ; and Emma was quite in charity with him .  I wish Hetty had not gone .  The Lion above could n't stand that .  He had been blamable , highly blamable , in remaining at Norland after he first felt her influence over him to be more than it ought to be .  They had been meeting almost every day since his arrival .  `` Why did you wear your coat of mail ? ''  `` I was simple enough to think , that because my FAITH was plighted to another , there could be no danger in my being with you ; and that the consciousness of my engagement was to keep my heart as safe and sacred as my honour .  Mary was in excellent spirits , enjoying the gaiety and the change , and so well satisfied with the journey in her mother-in-law 's carriage with four horses , and with her own complete independence of Camden Place , that she was exactly in a temper to admire everything as she ought , and enter most readily into all the superiorities of the house , as they were detailed to her .  Your telling it will be the greatest act of friendship that can be shewn Marianne .  she cried ; `` I 'm sure our time has come !  Highbury , that airy , cheerful , happy-looking Highbury , would be his constant attraction . ''  Part of every winter she had been used to spend in Bath ; but Bristol was her home , the very heart of Bristol ; for though the father and mother had died some years ago , an uncle remained -- in the law line -- nothing more distinctly honourable was hazarded of him , than that he was in the law line ; and with him the daughter had lived .  `` You have been long acquainted with Colonel Brandon , have not you ? ''  `` Esteem him !  I gave him a lock of my hair set in a ring when he was at Longstaple last , and that was some comfort to him , he said , but not equal to a picture .  A continuance in a place where everything reminded her of former delight , was exactly what suited her mind .  She thanked him with brief , though fervent gratitude , and while he went to hurry off his servant with a message to Mr. Harris , and an order for post-horses directly , she wrote a few lines to her mother .  Little Joe glared back at Blacky .  YOUR sense of honour and honesty would have led you , I know , when aware of your situation , to attempt all the economy that would appear to you possible : and , perhaps , as long as your frugality retrenched only on your own comfort , you might have been suffered to practice it , but beyond that -- and how little could the utmost of your single management do to stop the ruin which had begun before your marriage ? -- Beyond THAT , had you endeavoured , however reasonably , to abridge HIS enjoyments , is it not to be feared , that instead of prevailing on feelings so selfish to consent to it , you would have lessened your own influence on his heart , and made him regret the connection which had involved him in such difficulties ? ''  `` Walter , '' cried Charles Hayter , `` why do you not do as you are bid ?  It was several days before Willoughby 's name was mentioned before Marianne by any of her family ; Sir John and Mrs. Jennings , indeed , were not so nice ; their witticisms added pain to many a painful hour ; -- but one evening , Mrs. Dashwood , accidentally taking up a volume of Shakespeare , exclaimed ,  `` Brother and sister !  It might be a very indifferent piece of wit , but Emma found a great deal to laugh at and enjoy in it -- and so did Frank and Harriet. -- It did not seem to touch the rest of the party equally ; some looked very stupid about it , and Mr. Knightley gravely said ,  Elizabeth was , for a short time , suffering a good deal .  With all my soul I wish them happy , and rejoice over every circumstance in favour of it .  It was felt as such things must be felt .  `` How much his business engrosses him already is very plain from the circumstance of his forgetting to inquire for the book you recommended .  He tried to rush upon the fairy and kill her , but she had vanished with her words .  Harriet was silent .  But -- that he should talk of encouragement , should consider her as aware of his views , accepting his attentions , meaning ( in short ) , to marry him ! -- should suppose himself her equal in connexion or mind ! -- look down upon her friend , so well understanding the gradations of rank below him , and be so blind to what rose above , as to fancy himself shewing no presumption in addressing her ! -- It was most provoking .  It had been gradually yielding to the better hopes which her looks , or words , or actions occasionally encouraged ; it had been vanquished at last by those sentiments and those tones which had reached him while she talked with Captain Harville ; and under the irresistible governance of which he had seized a sheet of paper , and poured out his feelings .  CHAPTER XI  `` This explains the sort of clever thing that is wanted , and Mr. Weston has done very well for himself ; but he must have knocked up every body else .  `` Oh , what a sweet house ! -- How very beautiful ! -- There are the yellow curtains that Miss Nash admires so much . ''  Elinor did not quite understand the beginning of Mrs. Jennings 's speech , neither did she think it worth inquiring into ; and therefore only replied to its conclusion .  I will only tell you what I have found him .  Such was her situation , with a vacant space at hand , when Captain Wentworth was again in sight .  With shouts of laughter , the courtiers drove Robert of Sicily from the banquet hall ; the waiting-men , with laughter , too , pushed him into the soldiers ' hall ; and there the pages brought the jester 's wretched ape , and put a fool 's cap and bells on Robert 's head .  Sammy waited a little until he could see better .  He thought very fast .  They did that for him , went home , and the tailor went in hiding the same as he did the evening before .  She was certainly not a woman of family , but well educated , accomplished , rich , and excessively in love with his friend .  `` You have said so , '' replied Elinor , `` almost every day since they first met on High-church Down ; and they had not known each other a week , I believe , before you were certain that Marianne wore his picture round her neck ; but it turned out to be only the miniature of our great uncle . ''  As soon as Mrs. Weston was sufficiently recovered to admit Mr. Woodhouse 's visits , Emma having it in view that her gentle reasonings should be employed in the cause , resolved first to announce it at home , and then at Randalls. -- But how to break it to her father at last ! -- She had bound herself to do it , in such an hour of Mr. Knightley 's absence , or when it came to the point her heart would have failed her , and she must have put it off ; but Mr. Knightley was to come at such a time , and follow up the beginning she was to make. -- She was forced to speak , and to speak cheerfully too .  `` Aye , do , Frank. -- Go and fetch Miss Bates , and let us end the matter at once .  When they were got a little farther , Anne ventured to press again for what he had to communicate .  you clever creature , that 's very true .  What was it that he was , now ?  CHAPTER V  But , Mr. Knightley , how could you possibly have heard it ?  One hates to be officious , to be giving bad impressions , making mischief .  Sir John had dropped hints of past injuries and disappointments , which justified her belief of his being an unfortunate man , and she regarded him with respect and compassion .  But it would have been more like Willoughby to acknowledge them at once .  `` Oh !  Of their all removing to Donwell , Emma had already had her own passing thoughts .  The old walnut trees are all come down to make room for it .  Understanding and gratification came together .  Oh !  Mr. Weston , you must really have had Aladdin 's lamp .  Where features were indifferent , a fine complexion gave beauty to them all ; and where they were good , the effect was -- fortunately he need not attempt to describe what the effect was .  sir -- but a thoughtless young person will sometimes step behind a window-curtain , and throw up a sash , without its being suspected .  Mrs. Dashwood entered into all their feelings with a warmth which left her no inclination for checking this excessive display of them .  Emma 's answer was ready at the first word .  You would hardly think , would you , that a poor woman who worked in a laundry could be much of a friend to them ?  `` Not go to town ! ''  Then the tiny elves took hold of each other's hands and danced round the shoes on the bench , till the shoemaker and his wife had hard work not to laugh aloud .  I know it has .  `` At this moment , perhaps , Mr. Elton is shewing your picture to his mother and sisters , telling how much more beautiful is the original , and after being asked for it five or six times , allowing them to hear your name , your own dear name . ''  It was her own universal good-will and contented temper which worked such wonders .  I should be quite in the way .  It had formerly been Charlotte 's , and over the mantelpiece still hung a landscape in coloured silks of her performance , in proof of her having spent seven years at a great school in town to some effect .  `` A letter of proper submission ! ''  Why , it was a footprint in the soft mud .  `` _I_ sick of prosperity and indulgence !  But `` she could never get acquainted with her : she did not know how it was , but there was such coldness and reserve -- such apparent indifference whether she pleased or not -- and then , her aunt was such an eternal talker ! -- and she was made such a fuss with by every body ! -- and it had been always imagined that they were to be so intimate -- because their ages were the same , every body had supposed they must be so fond of each other . ''  `` Does your sister make no distinction in her objections against a second attachment ?  And as she begged , she looked from one hard face to another , with trusting , imploring eyes , as if she could not believe men could be really bad .  `` I am not at all surprized that he should have fallen in love . ''  She was in dancing , singing , exclaiming spirits ; and till she had moved about , and talked to herself , and laughed and reflected , she could be fit for nothing rational .  I never had much opinion of the sea air . ''  You and Miss Fairfax gave us some very good music .  He was then the inferior in circumstances ; he was then the poor one ; he had chambers in the Temple , and it was as much as he could do to support the appearance of a gentleman .  `` No ; my feelings are not often shared , not often understood .  But nearly everybody else believed it , and there was great rejoicing .  We each begin , probably , with a little bias towards our own sex ; and upon that bias build every circumstance in favour of it which has occurred within our own circle ; many of which circumstances ( perhaps those very cases which strike us the most ) may be precisely such as can not be brought forward without betraying a confidence , or in some respect saying what should not be said . ''  as fast as you can !  What !  `` Well , she is to marry him .  never can it be !  how unhappy I make you ! ''  They had an early account from Lyme the next morning .  `` I do not often walk this way _now_ , '' said Emma , as they proceeded , `` but _then_ there will be an inducement , and I shall gradually get intimately acquainted with all the hedges , gates , pools and pollards of this part of Highbury . ''  Mr. Palmer is the kind of man I like . ''  `` When did that happen ? ''  It implies everything amiable .  `` Colonel Brandon is so delicate a man , that he rather wished any one to announce his intentions to Mr. Ferrars than himself . ''  Anne did not share these feelings .  In seasons of cheerfulness , no temper could be more cheerful than hers , or possess , in a greater degree , that sanguine expectation of happiness which is happiness itself .  He would then have suffered under the pecuniary distresses which , because they are removed , he now reckons as nothing .  While he stood , as if meaning to go , but not going -- her father began his inquiries .  Mr. Knightley , he is _not_ a trifling , silly young man .  The nature and the simplicity of gentlemen and ladies , with their servants and furniture , I think is best observed by meals within doors .  `` Very much to the honour of both , '' was the handsome reply .  I have observed it all my life .  `` Indeed , '' replied Elinor , `` I believe that you will find him , on farther acquaintance , all that you have heard him to be , and as you will be such very near neighbours ( for I understand the parsonage is almost close to the mansion-house , ) it is particularly important that he SHOULD be all this . ''  You will excuse me .  I have always heard him spoken of as such , and your brother I know esteems him highly .  Nothing was wanting but to be happy when they got there .  Some people were always cross when they were hot .  `` She had engaged to go as governess to Mrs. Smallridge 's children -- a dear friend of Mrs. Elton 's -- a neighbour of Maple Grove ; and , by the bye , I wonder how Mrs. Elton bears the disappointment ? ''  Was this like wishing to avoid her ?  A conundrum of Mr. Weston 's shall clear him and his next neighbour .  I thought of nothing but whether it might not be Colonel Brandon come back again ; so I said to Sir John , I do think I hear a carriage ; perhaps it is Colonel Brandon come back again '' --  Nothing should separate her from her father .  She could not speak .  cried Jane , with a blush and an hesitation which Emma thought infinitely more becoming to her than all the elegance of all her usual composure -- '' there would have been no danger .  Now when Little Joe Otter found that Buster Bear had been too smart for him and that instead of spoiling Buster 's fishing in the Laughing Brook he had really made it easier for Buster to catch all the fish he wanted , Little Joe went off down to the Smiling Pool in a great rage .  When Mr. Weston joined the party , however , and when the baby was fetched , there was no longer a want of subject or animation -- or of courage and opportunity for Frank Churchill to draw near her and say ,  Elinor did feel a little ashamed of her brother ; and was not sorry to be spared the necessity of answering him , by the arrival of Mrs. Jennings 's servant , who came to tell her that his mistress waited for them at the door .  On the shelves were jars of butter , and cheeses in bags and out of bags .  The horror of the moment to all who stood around !  My dear sir , you are too obliging. -- Is there nobody you would not rather ? -- I am not helpless .  Do you think I am right ? ''  And even Sir John 's joking intelligence must have had some weight .  `` I suspect , '' said Sir Walter coolly , `` that Admiral Croft will be best known in Bath as the renter of Kellynch Hall .  A little curiosity Emma had ; and she made the most of it while her friend related .  Sir John , could not have thought it possible .  He shook his head and laughed. -- '' I can not separate Miss Fairfax and her complexion . ''  Mr Wentworth was the very man .  And then to turn the discourse , she began admiring the house and the furniture .  I am not like Jane ; I wish I were .  He told one of his friends , a wicked man who flattered him for his own purposes , about the thing , and asked his advice .  You see these here six mince pies I done make ?  On one side you look across the bowling-green , behind the house , to a beautiful hanging wood , and on the other you have a view of the church and village , and , beyond them , of those fine bold hills that we have so often admired .  `` It would be impossible , I know , '' replied Elinor , `` to convince you that a woman of seven and twenty could feel for a man of thirty-five anything near enough to love , to make him a desirable companion to her .  `` Reserved ! -- how , in what manner ?  One of the plays they acted was _Jack and the Beanstalk_ .  `` There are none little enough , '' they said .  I heard it from the servant .  When he came away , she was going to walk out with Captain Benwick , which , he hoped , would do her good .  And how beautiful we thought he looked !  You will be setting your cap at him now , and never think of poor Brandon . ''  Mrs. Weston could only approve .  That is the way that a habit which is n't bad in itself can become bad when it is carried too far .  `` Do come , Anne '' cried Mary , `` come and look yourself .  Anne found Captain Benwick getting near her , as soon as they were all fairly in the street .  And the very first thing she said , when her father told her about it , was , `` Oh , may I have a garden ?  In respectability of character , there can be no doubt that they are .  I never knew him myself ; I only heard of him ; but there was a something in his conduct then , with regard to my father and sister , and afterwards in the circumstances of his marriage , which I never could quite reconcile with present times .  It chiefly consisted of household linen , plate , china , and books , with a handsome pianoforte of Marianne 's .  Anne knew that Lady Russell must be suffering some pain in understanding and relinquishing Mr Elliot , and be making some struggles to become truly acquainted with , and do justice to Captain Wentworth .  My acquaintance is so very extensive , that I have little doubt of hearing of something to suit her shortly. -- I shall introduce her , of course , very particularly to my brother and sister when they come to us .  Do not forget me when you are married , that 's all .  There I was quite right .  The _idea_ of placing ME upon the same level -- in the same family , as a low-born , mean , insignificant , utterly valueless -- -- '' Here the Diamond fairly choked for breath .  `` Why ? ''  Remember . ''  Miss Nash had told her all this , and had talked a great deal more about Mr. Elton ; and said , looking so very significantly at her , `` that she did not pretend to understand what his business might be , but she only knew that any woman whom Mr. Elton could prefer , she should think the luckiest woman in the world ; for , beyond a doubt , Mr. Elton had not his equal for beauty or agreeableness . ''  Thank ye , the gloves do very well -- only a little too large about the wrist ; but Jane is taking them in . ''  I suppose you were very sorry to leave Sussex . ''  `` How can you say so , Anne ? ''  she cried , And mother and father must peep inside .  This helped him too .  He thanked her with all his heart , and continued some time to speak with serious feeling of his gratitude and happiness .  I wonder which she will think the handsomest , Henry or John ? ''  `` This is very unfortunate .  He was more obviously struck and confused by the sight of her than she had ever observed before ; he looked quite red .  They did not make a crack , like the radishes ; they seemed too small and too far apart to push the earth up like that .  Mrs. Weston was the object of a regard which had its basis in gratitude and esteem .  But he had n't .  The resemblance between her and her mother was strikingly great .  I will not abuse him .  She tried to stop him ; but vainly ; he would go on , and say it all .  Why was it so much worse that Harriet should be in love with Mr. Knightley , than with Frank Churchill ?  And as he spun , and spun , and spun , faster , and faster , and faster , the poor little Red Hen got so dizzy watching him that she could n't hold on to the perch .  I do not ask you to go with me , for I dare say your mind is too full of the matter to care for company ; and besides , you must long to tell your sister all about it . ''  `` I found , '' said he , `` that I was considered by Harville an engaged man !  NIGHT The sun descending in the west , The evening star does shine ; The birds are silent in their nest , And I must seek for mine .  united , ( _courtship_ , you know , ) what reverse we have !  never can it be !  Alas !  Mr. Knightley shook his head at her .  Not a puncture , not a weak spot anywhere .  The clock struck twelve !  After being long fed with hopes of a speedy visit from Mr. and Mrs. Suckling , the Highbury world were obliged to endure the mortification of hearing that they could not possibly come till the autumn .  Emma saw how Mr. Weston understood these joyous prospects .  He had time only to say ,  It seemed to Buster as if everybody who lives in the Green Forest , on the Green Meadows , or around the Smiling Brook , was sitting around his hiding place , laughing and making fun of him .  `` Oh yes , sir , '' cried she with ready sympathy , `` how you must miss her !  She had an excellent heart ; -- her disposition was affectionate , and her feelings were strong ; but she knew how to govern them : it was a knowledge which her mother had yet to learn ; and which one of her sisters had resolved never to be taught .  `` No , papa , nobody thought of your walking .  I am sure you will agree with me . ''  There was only Harriet , who seemed not in spirits herself , fagged , and very willing to be silent ; and Emma felt the tears running down her cheeks almost all the way home , without being at any trouble to check them , extraordinary as they were .  Smallridge , too !  Any thing else I should be most happy to do , at your command -- but my dancing days are over . ''  Their mutual friend answered for the satisfaction which a visit from Miss Elliot would give Mrs Smith , and Anne therefore lost no time in going .  It is all very well , I used to say , for young people to be engaged , if there is a certainty of their being able to marry in six months , or even in twelve ; but a long engagement -- ''  Knightley ! -- never seen him in her life before , and call him Knightley ! -- and discover that he is a gentleman !  I would much rather have been merry than wise . ''  On each side of the entrance was a sitting room , about sixteen feet square ; and beyond them were the offices and the stairs .  The couplet does not cease to be , nor does its meaning change .  _I_ think seriously of Miss Smith ! -- Miss Smith is a very good sort of girl ; and I should be happy to see her respectably settled .  `` I do own myself to have been completely mistaken in Mr. Elton .  growled Buster , scrambling a little nearer .  He wants something going on .  At present , I ask only to hear , once to hear your voice . ''  But they surely would .  We sailors , Miss Elliot , can not afford to make long courtships in time of war .  By your account , he does seem to have had some scruples .  The force of habit was to be added . ''  Emma could not speak .  That it was time for every body to go , concluded the subject ; and with a short final arrangement for the next day 's scheme , they parted .  Did you hear What happened to Piccola , children dear ?  `` Nonsense , errant nonsense , as ever was talked ! ''  `` Where shall we go ? ''  I shall not be far off , if you want me . ''  Had Lady Dalrymple and her daughter even been very agreeable , she would still have been ashamed of the agitation they created , but they were nothing .  One thing , especially , I remember , because it served to identify the man still more : -- as soon as the ceremony was over , they were to go to Combe Magna , his seat in Somersetshire .  Mr. Elton looked as if he did not very well know what answer to make ; which was exactly the case ; for though very much gratified by the kind care of such a fair lady , and not liking to resist any advice of her 's , he had not really the least inclination to give up the visit ; -- but Emma , too eager and busy in her own previous conceptions and views to hear him impartially , or see him with clear vision , was very well satisfied with his muttering acknowledgment of its being `` very cold , certainly very cold , '' and walked on , rejoicing in having extricated him from Randalls , and secured him the power of sending to inquire after Harriet every hour of the evening .  But Little Joe just turned his back and went off down the Laughing Brook in a great rage .  He was recalled from wit to wisdom , not by any reproof of her 's , but by his own sensibility .  `` You are very kind -- but you are mistaken -- and I must set you right. -- I am not in want of that sort of compassion .  `` You spent the evening with Mrs .  asked Elinor .  I have no notion of people 's making such a to-do about money and greatness .  Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies : thou anointest my head with oil ; my cup runneth over .  `` You ca n't catch me , I 'm the Gingerbread Man ! ''  Accordingly their removal was made together , and Anne was set down at Uppercross Cottage , in the first stage of Lady Russell 's journey .  A few minutes , though as few as possible , were inevitably consumed ; and when her own mistress again , when able to turn and look as she had done before , she found herself accosted by Captain Wentworth , in a reserved yet hurried sort of farewell .  They were reckoning him as certain , but with her it was a gnawing solicitude never appeased for five minutes together .  But so it was .  She would take place of me then , and Henrietta would not dislike that .  `` The idea of your making such a noise , with your shouting and singing !  Every body who saw it was pleased , but Mr. Elton was in continual raptures , and defended it through every criticism .  `` I must spend some time with them ; I am sure they will want it ; -- afterwards I may probably be glad to dispose of myself .  are my ideas so scanty ?  `` But with a strange kind of tenderness , if he can leave her with such indifference , such carelessness of the future , as you attribute to him . ''  It was an arrangement , however , justified in its effects , if not in its cause ; for nothing ever appeared in Robert 's style of living or of talking to give a suspicion of his regretting the extent of his income , as either leaving his brother too little , or bringing himself too much ; -- and if Edward might be judged from the ready discharge of his duties in every particular , from an increasing attachment to his wife and his home , and from the regular cheerfulness of his spirits , he might be supposed no less contented with his lot , no less free from every wish of an exchange .  `` Mr. Willoughby , I advise you at present to return to Combe -- I am not at leisure to remain with you longer. -- Whatever your business may be with me , will it be better recollected and explained to-morrow . ''  He omitted no opportunity of being with them , threw himself in their way , called at all hours ; but I need not be particular on this subject .  He shortly afterwards drew a chair close to her 's , and , with a look which perfectly assured her of his good information , inquired after her sister .  `` I leave an excellent substitute in my daughter .  What shall we do to rouse them ?  But in this case , Anne had left nothing for advice to do ; and though Lady Russell , as satisfied as ever with her own discretion , never wished the past undone , she began now to have the anxiety which borders on hopelessness for Anne 's being tempted , by some man of talents and independence , to enter a state for which she held her to be peculiarly fitted by her warm affections and domestic habits .  `` There are inconveniences attending such feelings as Marianne 's , which all the charms of enthusiasm and ignorance of the world can not atone for .  `` Upon my word , I never saw a young woman so desperately in love in my life !  These convictions must unquestionably have their own pain , and severe was its kind ; but they precluded that pain which Lady Russell would suffer in entering the house again , and returning through the well-known apartments .  The sad accident at Lyme was soon the prevailing topic , and on comparing their latest accounts of the invalid , it appeared that each lady dated her intelligence from the same hour of yestermorn ; that Captain Wentworth had been in Kellynch yesterday ( the first time since the accident ) , had brought Anne the last note , which she had not been able to trace the exact steps of ; had staid a few hours and then returned again to Lyme , and without any present intention of quitting it any more .  She has cousins here , you know , and many acquaintance , which would make it cheerful for her , and I am sure she would be glad to get to a place where she could have medical attendance at hand , in case of his having another seizure .  But I gave what I believed the general opinion , when I called him plain . ''  He was hungry -- hungry for berries and nothing else .  I knew not this , and therefore did I weep : That God would love a Worm I knew , and punish the evil foot That wilful bruis 'd its helpless form : but that he cherish 'd it With milk and oil I never knew , and therefore did I weep , And I complaind in the mild air , because I fade away .  She was evidently displeased ; looked up , and seeing herself watched , blushed more deeply than he had ever perceived her , and saying only , `` I did not know that proper names were allowed , '' pushed away the letters with even an angry spirit , and looked resolved to be engaged by no other word that could be offered .  those were pleasant days when I had the Laconia !  `` But , my dear , pray do not make any more matches ; they are silly things , and break up one 's family circle grievously . ''  I consider him , on the contrary , as a very respectable man , who has every body 's good word , and nobody 's notice ; who , has more money than he can spend , more time than he knows how to employ , and two new coats every year . ''  Immediately surrounding Mrs Musgrove were the little Harvilles , whom she was sedulously guarding from the tyranny of the two children from the Cottage , expressly arrived to amuse them .  My behaviour , during the very happy fortnight which I spent with you , did not , I hope , lay me open to reprehension , excepting on one point .  Her satisfaction in Mr Elliot outweighed all the plague of Mrs Clay .  Emma turned round to look at her in consternation , and hastily said ,  How did Miss Campbell appear to like it ? ''  But when he saw how helpless the keeper was , he repented , and sprang to help .  `` We consider our Hartfield pork , '' replied Mr. Woodhouse -- '' indeed it certainly is , so very superior to all other pork , that Emma and I can not have a greater pleasure than -- ''  Now there is something very surprising about this statue : it was the first one that was ever made in America in honour of a woman .  His mother and his father cherish him ; he nestles on their knees in the red firelight at night , while they read to him lovely stories , or sing sweet old songs to him , -- the happy little boy !  And I hope she will be better off in one respect , and not be induced to go away after it has been her home so long . ''  He did not advance a word of praise beyond what she knew to be thoroughly deserved by Mrs. Weston ; but , undoubtedly he could know very little of the matter .  At last all the festivities were over , and the King of Sicily went home to his own land again , with his people .  But I 'll just tell you one thing , Epaminondas !  When I first became intimate in your family , I had no other intention , no other view in the acquaintance than to pass my time pleasantly while I was obliged to remain in Devonshire , more pleasantly than I had ever done before .  The very want of such equality might prevent his perception of it ; but he must know that in fortune and consequence she was greatly his superior .  Nothing wrong in him escaped her .  `` For when our souls have learn 'd the heat to bear , The cloud will vanish , we shall hear His voice , Saying , 'Come out from the grove , my love and care And round my golden tent like lambs rejoice ' , '' Thus did my mother say , and kissed me ; And thus I say to little English boy .  Regard for a former servant of my own , who had since fallen into misfortune , carried me to visit him in a spunging-house , where he was confined for debt ; and there , the same house , under a similar confinement , was my unfortunate sister .  I have done very little . ''  Of course Mrs. Brown promised that she would , and so that night Farmer Brown 's boy went to bed very early that he might get up early in the morning , and all night long he dreamed of berries and berry pies .  `` Jane Fairfax ! -- Good God !  `` He chose to say he was employed '' --  Indeed I think it quite melancholy to have such excellent people as Dr and Mrs Shirley , who have been doing good all their lives , wearing out their last days in a place like Uppercross , where , excepting our family , they seem shut out from all the world .  Lord bless me ! -- I am sure it would put ME quite out of patience ! -- And though one would be very glad to do a kindness by poor Mr. Ferrars , I do think it is not worth while to wait two or three months for him .  The others returned , the room filled again , benches were reclaimed and repossessed , and another hour of pleasure or of penance was to be sat out , another hour of music was to give delight or the gapes , as real or affected taste for it prevailed .  `` When do you write to Colonel Brandon , ma'am ? ''  Right in front of him was a shiny thing just full of the finest , biggest , bluest berries !  Mr. Knightley was a sort of general friend and adviser , and she knew Mr. Elton looked up to him .  In mourning , you see , just as our Mr Elliot must be .  And she began to work very hard to earn money .  CHAPTER VI  `` Encouragement ! -- I give you encouragement ! -- Sir , you have been entirely mistaken in supposing it .  `` It 's of no use to try to fish here .  Emma had not to listen to such paradings again -- to any so exclusively addressed to herself -- so disgustingly decorated with a `` dear Miss Woodhouse . ''  It was with the daughter of Mr Shepherd , who had returned , after an unprosperous marriage , to her father 's house , with the additional burden of two children .  But the sight of Mr. Knightley among the most attentive , soon drew away half Emma 's mind ; and she fell into a train of thinking on the subject of Mrs. Weston 's suspicions , to which the sweet sounds of the united voices gave only momentary interruptions .  I shall have no difficulty , I suppose , in finding the house ; though Fairfax , I believe , is not the proper name -- I should rather say Barnes , or Bates .  Anne had called several times on her friend , before the existence of such a person was known in Camden Place .  it is over ! ''  thought Emma , `` he would have done as much for Harriet . ''  `` I never want them , I assure you .  Marianne rose the next morning with recovered spirits and happy looks .  `` Me , brother !  That neither Harville nor his wife entertained a doubt of our mutual attachment .  The sort of desperate calmness with which this was said , lasted no longer than while she spoke , and was immediately followed by a return of the same excessive affliction .  A name that I am so very well acquainted with ; knew the gentleman so well by sight ; seen him a hundred times ; came to consult me once , I remember , about a trespass of one of his neighbours ; farmer 's man breaking into his orchard ; wall torn down ; apples stolen ; caught in the fact ; and afterwards , contrary to my judgement , submitted to an amicable compromise .  This was not submitted to by either lady .  `` Something a little inferior I shall of course put up with , but it must not be much .  `` I will say no more about him , '' cried Emma , `` you turn every thing to evil .  When I talked of a whole history , therefore , you see I was not romancing so much as you supposed . ''  She often told herself it was folly , before she could harden her nerves sufficiently to feel the continual discussion of the Crofts and their business no evil .  It is a great while since we met . ''  His pleasure in music , though it amounted not to that ecstatic delight which alone could sympathize with her own , was estimable when contrasted against the horrible insensibility of the others ; and she was reasonable enough to allow that a man of five and thirty might well have outlived all acuteness of feeling and every exquisite power of enjoyment .  Mr. Weston , his son , Emma , and Harriet , only remained ; and the young man 's spirits now rose to a pitch almost unpleasant .  He was invited on good faith .  And as he watched them from the shadow by the door , the maidens stayed their grinding for a while to rest .  Colonel Brandon , who had a general invitation to the house , was with them almost every day ; he came to look at Marianne and talk to Elinor , who often derived more satisfaction from conversing with him than from any other daily occurrence , but who saw at the same time with much concern his continued regard for her sister .  Then he took a big bag and slung it over his shoulder , and walked till he came to the little Red Hen 's house .  It reminded her of their first forlorn tete-a-tete , on the evening of Mrs. Weston 's wedding-day ; but Mr. Knightley had walked in then , soon after tea , and dissipated every melancholy fancy .  The composure of mind with which I have brought myself at present to consider the matter , the consolation that I have been willing to admit , have been the effect of constant and painful exertion ; -- they did not spring up of themselves ; -- they did not occur to relieve my spirits at first. -- No , Marianne. -- THEN , if I had not been bound to silence , perhaps nothing could have kept me entirely -- not even what I owed to my dearest friends -- from openly shewing that I was VERY unhappy . ''  I have a great value for Benwick ; and when one can but get him to talk , he has plenty to say .  `` No , '' said he , `` I never said any thing so irrational .  With Tuesday came the agreeable prospect of seeing him again , and for a longer time than hitherto ; of judging of his general manners , and by inference , of the meaning of his manners towards herself ; of guessing how soon it might be necessary for her to throw coldness into her air ; and of fancying what the observations of all those might be , who were now seeing them together for the first time .  `` My dear , you do not understand me .  How could you have consoled her ! -- I can not express my own abhorrence of myself .  The Country Mouse ran after , you may be sure , as fast as _he_ could .  And yet she was a happy woman , and a woman whom no one named without good-will .  It is a corner room , and has windows on two sides .  `` And yet this woman -- who knows what her art may have been ? -- how long it may have been premeditated , and how deeply contrived by her ! -- Who is she ? -- Who can she be ? -- Whom did I ever hear him talk of as young and attractive among his female acquaintance ? -- Oh !  Mrs. Elton seemed most favourably impressed by the size of the room , the entrance , and all that she could see or imagine .  Mr Elliot came back accordingly ; and on application was forgiven , as you know , and re-admitted into the family ; and there it was his constant object , and his only object ( till your arrival added another motive ) , to watch Sir Walter and Mrs Clay .  In spite of his being allowed once more to live , however , he did not feel the continuance of his existence secure , till he had revealed his present engagement ; for the publication of that circumstance , he feared , might give a sudden turn to his constitution , and carry him off as rapidly as before .  He rubbed his eyes and stared everywhere , even up in the trees , as if he thought those sandwiches might be hanging up there .  `` Service !  This is a sort of dull-looking evening , that ought to be treated rather as winter than summer .  Besides the Eltons , it must be the Westons and Mr. Knightley ; so far it was all of course -- and it was hardly less inevitable that poor little Harriet must be asked to make the eighth : -- but this invitation was not given with equal satisfaction , and on many accounts Emma was particularly pleased by Harriet 's begging to be allowed to decline it .  There comes old Sir Archibald Drew and his grandson .  Marianne said not a word. -- She trembled , her eyes were fixed on the ground , and her lips became whiter than even sickness had left them .  _Page 112._ ] Then he vented his temper on the tin pail .  `` He has only two thousand pounds of his own ; it would be madness to marry upon that , though for my own part , I could give up every prospect of more without a sigh .  There is nobody half so attentive and civil as you are .  I rather believe you are giving me more credit for acuteness than I deserve .  `` Indifferent !  It was badly done , indeed !  Harriet was very ready to speak of the share he had had in their moonlight walks and merry evening games ; and dwelt a good deal upon his being so very good-humoured and obliging .  `` Cake , Mammy , '' said Epaminondas .  The toils of the business were over , the sweets began .  When I came to you last week and found you alone , I came determined to know the truth ; though irresolute what to do when it WAS known .  `` And who was this uncle ?  It is such a blessing !  The first , which was what her sister had sent him on their arrival in town , was to this effect .  I was desired to say so from both .  `` No , no , '' said she , `` you are quite unreasonable .  He merely meant to persuade her to give up the engagement ; and as there could be nothing to overcome but the affection of both , he naturally expected that one or two interviews would settle the matter .  `` Your word ! -- why not your honour ! -- why not say upon your honour , that it has nothing to do with any of them ?  Anne could command herself enough to receive that look , and not repulsively .  `` How often did I wish , '' added he , `` when I was at Allenham this time twelvemonth , that Barton cottage were inhabited !  'I wish , with all my heart , ' says poor Fanny in her affectionate way , 'that we had asked your sisters instead of them . ' ''  So the little Gingerbread Boy jumped on his nose .  No sooner was she out of sight , than Emma exclaimed ,  She was in the adjoining chamber while she still spoke , and opening the casement there , immediately called Mr. Knightley 's attention , and every syllable of their conversation was as distinctly heard by the others , as if it had passed within the same apartment .  `` Turn away no more ; Why wilt thou turn away ?  When they all sat down it was better ; to her taste a great deal better , for Frank Churchill grew talkative and gay , making her his first object .  A week to-morrow ! -- And I have hardly begun to enjoy myself .  I shall have no fortune , and I fancy she is an exceeding proud woman . ''  Have you finished it ?  He had turned his head for just a minute , and when he looked back again , the trout was nowhere to be seen .  His kindness in stepping forward to her relief , the manner , the silence in which it had passed , the little particulars of the circumstance , with the conviction soon forced on her by the noise he was studiously making with the child , that he meant to avoid hearing her thanks , and rather sought to testify that her conversation was the last of his wants , produced such a confusion of varying , but very painful agitation , as she could not recover from , till enabled by the entrance of Mary and the Miss Musgroves to make over her little patient to their cares , and leave the room .  She would have given a great deal , or endured a great deal , to have had the Martins in a higher rank of life .  She now found that she had erred in relying on Elinor 's representation of herself ; and justly concluded that every thing had been expressly softened at the time , to spare her from an increase of unhappiness , suffering as she then had suffered for Marianne .  Colonel Brandon again repeated his sorrow at being the cause of disappointing the party ; but at the same time declared it to be unavoidable .  `` Yes , oh !  Elinor bowed her assent .  When the evening was over , Anne could not but be amused at the idea of her coming to Lyme to preach patience and resignation to a young man whom she had never seen before ; nor could she help fearing , on more serious reflection , that , like many other great moralists and preachers , she had been eloquent on a point in which her own conduct would ill bear examination .  Or an Eye of gifts & graces showring fruits & coined gold !  `` Oh !  She must allow him to be still frequently coming to look ; any thing less would certainly have been too little in a lover ; and he was ready at the smallest intermission of the pencil , to jump up and see the progress , and be charmed. -- There was no being displeased with such an encourager , for his admiration made him discern a likeness almost before it was possible .  I warrant you , Miss Marianne would have been ready to wait till matters came round .  I would not have you suffer on my account ; for I assure you I no longer suffer materially myself .  Anne heard nothing of this .  She was delighted to see her father look comfortable , and very much pleased with herself for contriving things so well ; but the quiet prosings of three such women made her feel that every evening so spent was indeed one of the long evenings she had fearfully anticipated .  Precisely such had the paragraph originally stood from the printer 's hands ; but Sir Walter had improved it by adding , for the information of himself and his family , these words , after the date of Mary 's birth -- `` Married , December 16 , 1810 , Charles , son and heir of Charles Musgrove , Esq .  So very obliging of Mr. Frank Churchill !  The little Field Mouse knew that his chance had come to run away home .  This event , while it raised the spirits of Elinor , restored to those of her sister all , and more than all , their former agitation .  `` And who is Miss Williams ? ''  Why was it ?  He would be so very .  The card-table was then placed , and Elinor began to wonder at herself for having ever entertained a hope of finding time for conversation at the park .  `` I would suppose him , -- Oh , how gladly would I suppose him , only fickle , very , very fickle . ''  Your peace will not be shipwrecked as mine has been .  Willoughby was a young man of good abilities , quick imagination , lively spirits , and open , affectionate manners .  What !  She was supported into the drawing-room between her daughter and her friend ; -- and there , shedding tears of joy , though still unable to speak , embraced Elinor again and again , turning from her at intervals to press Colonel Brandon 's hand , with a look which spoke at once her gratitude , and her conviction of his sharing with herself in the bliss of the moment .  My behaviour must have seemed strange to you then ; but now you will comprehend it .  `` You are not vain , Mr. Knightley .  The expense would be nothing , the inconvenience not more ; and it was altogether an attention which the delicacy of his conscience pointed out to be requisite to its complete enfranchisement from his promise to his father .  An annuity is a very serious business ; it comes over and over every year , and there is no getting rid of it .  `` Indeed !  `` You reside in Devonshire , I think , '' -- was his next observation , `` in a cottage near Dawlish . ''  And they both long to see you of all things , for they have heard at Exeter that you are the most beautiful creatures in the world ; and I have told them it is all very true , and a great deal more .  What answer did you give him ? -- Did you allow him to hope ? ''  CHAPTER XIII  They are to be new set .  They are both so very large , and take up so much room ; and Mr Musgrove always sits forward .  Forcing herself to speak , therefore , in the hope of putting it by , she calmly said ,  how do you think I can live poking by myself , I who have been always used till this winter to have Charlotte with me .  -- but checking her desire , confined herself to this silent ejaculation .  `` To be sure , '' said she , `` it is better than parting with fifteen hundred pounds at once .  There is no comparison between them .  `` No , no , '' said the little Tulip , `` you can not come in . ''  A cold stormy rain set in , and nothing of July appeared but in the trees and shrubs , which the wind was despoiling , and the length of the day , which only made such cruel sights the longer visible .  The visit passed off altogether in high good humour .  `` And yet two thousand a-year is a very moderate income , '' said Marianne .  `` Well !  `` But she is so amusing , so extremely amusing !  After another short silence --  He would gain cheerfulness , and she would learn to be an enthusiast for Scott and Lord Byron ; nay , that was probably learnt already ; of course they had fallen in love over poetry .  Round the laps of their mothers Many sisters and brothers , Like birds in their nest , Are ready for rest , And sport no more seen On the darkening green .  After a short pause .  She used to sit at the open door of her office , in a calico gown and a little shawl , and give a good word to everybody , rich or poor .  She tried to explain the real state of the case to her sister .  `` It is not now worth a regret , '' said Emma .  The great Mrs. Churchill was no more .  Surprizes are foolish things .  She must not flatter herself that he thought of her dancing , but if he were criticising her behaviour , she did not feel afraid .  The intelligence , which had been so anxiously announced to her , she was now to be anxiously announcing to another .  He thought it a very degrading alliance ; and Lady Russell , though with more tempered and pardonable pride , received it as a most unfortunate one .  And besides all this , I am afraid , Mamma , he has no real taste .  But Mrs Clay was talking so eagerly with Miss Elliot , that she did not hear the appeal .  Chug-a-rum !  Emma grew sick at the sound .  There is my father -- another of my father -- but the idea of sitting for his picture made him so nervous , that I could only take him by stealth ; neither of them very like therefore .  It is as long as it can be , And yet she does n't care .  I could not bear it for Emma ! -- Emma is not strong .  `` I think I have , '' replied Elinor , with an exertion of spirits , which increased with her increase of emotion .  `` There is no quarrelling with you .  And there was no one to help him .  He was so busy the last time he was at Kingston that he quite forgot it , but he goes again to-morrow .  But , alas !  If you will have a little patience , -- _how_ were you in the cage ?  It was all quite natural , however .  Excepting inequality of fortune , and perhaps a little disparity of age , I can see nothing unsuitable . ''  `` Thank you , but I would rather you did not mention the subject to her ; till the time draws nearer , I do not wish to be giving any body trouble . ''  But , even _allowing_ him to possess it , mere beauty without _rank_ is ridiculous and worthless .  `` Oh !  Is every thing finally settled ?  CHAPTER XVII  They would be very much pleased . ''  They both eagerly and resolutely declined her invitation .  Again he stopped to recover himself ; and Elinor spoke her feelings in an exclamation of tender concern , at the fate of his unfortunate friend .  The family of Dashwood had long been settled in Sussex .  A part of the money Margaret earned went every week to the asylum , and after a few years that was made very much larger and better .  Miss Woodhouse made the proper acquiescence ; and finding that nothing more was to be entrapped from any communication of Mrs. Cole 's , turned to Frank Churchill .  `` This is a pleasure , '' said he , in rather a low voice , `` coming at least ten minutes earlier than I had calculated .  I can only say , `No , I shall not ; ' and then they say again , `Yes , you will , ' and there is an end of it . ''  `` Your first was the Asp , I remember ; we will look for the Asp . ''  His eldest daughter 's alarm was equal to his own .  Be satisfied with doctoring and coddling yourself and the children , and let me look as I chuse . ''  He could n't keep it to himself a minute longer than he had to .  The little Red Hen was just coming out of her door to pick up a few sticks for firewood .  Will you not sit down ?  But the fortune , which had been so tardy in coming , was his only one twelvemonth .  They were so deserving , that a _little_ higher should have been enough : but as it was , how could she have done otherwise ? -- Impossible ! -- She could not repent .  I would give any money for it .  Emma was not sorry to have such an opportunity of survey ; and walking a few yards forward , while they talked together , soon made her quick eye sufficiently acquainted with Mr. Robert Martin .  He sits down with his holy fears , And waters the ground with tears ; Then Humility takes its root Underneath his foot .  Not that Marianne appeared to distrust the truth of any part of it , for she listened to it all with the most steady and submissive attention , made neither objection nor remark , attempted no vindication of Willoughby , and seemed to shew by her tears that she felt it to be impossible .  We were always glad to see him at Hartfield . ''  On the bank on one side of the Smiling Pool were Peter Rabbit , Jumper the Hare , Danny Meadow Mouse , Johnny Chuck , Jimmy Skunk , Unc ' Billy Possum , Striped Chipmunk and Old Mr. Toad .  snapped Little Joe .  It is what we happily have never known any thing of ; but it must be a life of misery .  Lady Elliott wished to give a dance .  she offered to forgive the past , if I would marry Eliza .  You can not think what a sweet place Cleveland is ; and we are so gay now , for Mr. Palmer is always going about the country canvassing against the election ; and so many people came to dine with us that I never saw before , it is quite charming !  But then again , the dread of having been too civil , too encouraging herself , probably came over her , for she presently added ,  I have heard so much in praise of Mr. Frank Churchill. -- At the same time it is fair to observe , that I am one of those who always judge for themselves , and are by no means implicitly guided by others .  He told her the news .  His concern however was very apparent ; and after expressing it with earnestness , he added , in the same low voice , -- '' But , Marianne , the horse is still yours , though you can not use it now .  These were her reasons -- she had no better .  Money , money , was all that he wanted .  `` O Epaminondas , Epaminondas , you ai n't got the sense you was born with ; you never did have the sense you was born with ; you never will have the sense you was born with !  `` That I am sure you would .  Such a letter was not to be soon recovered from .  `` The little Durands were there , I conclude , '' said she , `` with their mouths open to catch the music , like unfledged sparrows ready to be fed .  `` Yes , papa ; we have something to read you , something quite fresh .  You may believe me , Mrs. Weston .  In this state of schemes , and hopes , and connivance , June opened upon Hartfield .  said Emma .  Good soul !  The first question on her side , which led to farther particulars , was ,  you will be glad of a little company to sit with you .  The Woodpecker came and sounded the war-gong , and I had to dance ; and as I danced I trod on the Otter 's children . ''  Well , Brother Brahmin , now that it is locked , I should advise you to let it stay locked !  `` Now , how I do wish I understood you !  The wedding over , and the bride-people gone , her father and herself were left to dine together , with no prospect of a third to cheer a long evening .  -- And in a louder , steadier tone , he concluded with , `` He will soon be gone .  Louisa loved all these plays , and she made some of her own and wrote them down so that the children could act them .  There was no superiority of manner , accomplishment , or understanding .  Would you , in short , have renewed the engagement then ? ''  The hermit felt that his heart was breaking .  CHAPTER 22  `` How sorry I am !  `` You ca n't catch me , I 'm the Gingerbread Man ! ''  `` If we were in the other room , '' said Emma , `` if I had my writing-desk , I am sure I could produce a specimen .  I carried heavy loads and carried them far .  The thing is determined , that is ( laughing affectedly ) as far as I can presume to determine any thing without the concurrence of my lord and master .  He did n't know what to make of it .  Very long has it possessed a charm over my fancy ; and , if I dared , I would breathe my wishes that the name might never change . ''  She loved every body , was interested in every body 's happiness , quicksighted to every body 's merits ; thought herself a most fortunate creature , and surrounded with blessings in such an excellent mother , and so many good neighbours and friends , and a home that wanted for nothing .  She had ventured once alone to Randalls , but it was not pleasant ; and a Harriet Smith , therefore , one whom she could summon at any time to a walk , would be a valuable addition to her privileges .  what dread grasp Dare its deadly terrors clasp ?  The Moon could not open the door , but he shone in through the keyhole , in a broad band .  `` Yes ; Jane says she is sure they will ; but yet , this is such a situation as she can not feel herself justified in declining .  `` Open !  `` John does not even mention your friend , '' said Mr. Knightley .  Nancy , she fell upon her knees , and cried bitterly ; and your brother , he walked about the room , and said he did not know what to do .  Now here is my plan : `` To-morrow morning , very early , Sammy Jay and I will make a great fuss near the edge of the Green Forest .  Mary never wrote to Bath herself ; all the toil of keeping up a slow and unsatisfactory correspondence with Elizabeth fell on Anne .  She felt that half this folly must be drunkenness , and therefore could hope that it might belong only to the passing hour .  Anywhere , so that Jane is not in a draught .  Their interesting , almost too interesting conversation must be broken up for a time , but slight was the penance compared with the happiness which brought it on !  `` Ah !  An ancient family to be so driven away !  A large debt of gratitude was owing here ; but the intercourse of the last seven years , the equal footing and perfect unreserve which had soon followed Isabella 's marriage , on their being left to each other , was yet a dearer , tenderer recollection .  `` Do you suppose we can have planted _all_ radishes ? ''  `` Concealing it from us !  He had been too much expected by the best judges , for surprize -- but there was great joy .  Mrs Musgrove and Mrs Hayter were sisters .  Business on Sir John 's part , and a violent cold on her own , prevented their calling in Berkeley Street .  He is a most charming young man .  CHAPTER 14  I always deserve the best treatment , because I never put up with any other ; and , therefore , you must give me a plain , direct answer .  Then David said to Saul , `` Once I was keeping my father 's sheep , and there came a lion , and a bear , and took a lamb out of the flock ; and I went out after the lion , and struck him ; and delivered the lamb out of his mouth , and when he arose against me , I caught him by the beard , and struck him , and slew him !  On the contrary , every friend must be made still more her friend by them .  He did n't want it .  it was such an inexpressible obligation ! -- The very recollection of it , and all that I felt at the time -- when I saw him coming -- his noble look -- and my wretchedness before .  Upon these occasions , a lady 's character generally precedes her ; and Highbury has long known that you are a superior performer . ''  You will soon be able to judge of the general credit due , by listening to some particulars which you can yourself immediately contradict or confirm .  They had not a fault to find in him .  His mother is perfectly right not to be in a hurry .  CHAPTER 10  Now , as we may fairly suppose , he would not allow much time to pass before he spoke to the lady , and as he does not appear to have spoken yesterday , it is not unlikely that he should be at Mrs. Goddard 's to-day ; and she may be detained by a visitor , without thinking him at all a tiresome wretch . ''  Encouraged by this to a further examination of his opinions , she proceeded to question him on the subject of books ; her favourite authors were brought forward and dwelt upon with so rapturous a delight , that any young man of five and twenty must have been insensible indeed , not to become an immediate convert to the excellence of such works , however disregarded before .  `` Have you heard from her yourself this morning ? ''  said Anne .  At last , he sent them all away , saying he wanted to be alone ; but he commanded the jester to stay .  Lady Russell could not hear the door-bell without feeling that it might be his herald ; nor could Anne return from any stroll of solitary indulgence in her father 's grounds , or any visit of charity in the village , without wondering whether she might see him or hear of him .  The Chamberlain asked the maid to take him to the Nightingale 's home , and many of the lords and ladies followed after .  Charles , you had much better go back and change the box for Tuesday .  `` More than you think it really and intrinsically worth . ''  An ' schalted 'em both to death , So they could n't brathe no more ; An ' the little small Rid Hin lived safe , Jist where she lived before .  Every thing was explained to him by Mrs. Dashwood , and he found fresh reason to rejoice in what he had done for Mr. Ferrars , since eventually it promoted the interest of Elinor .  Exquisite , quite exquisite ! -- Still , however , having proceeded so far , one is unwilling to give the matter up .  They both seemed delighted with their drive ; but said only in general terms that they had kept in the lanes , while the others went on the downs .  the proper sport of boys and girls , but a single woman , of good fortune , is always respectable , and may be as sensible and pleasant as any body else .  `` When once married people begin to attack me with , -- `Oh !  She made no reply .  Elinor avoided it upon principle , as tending to fix still more upon her thoughts , by the too warm , too positive assurances of Marianne , that belief of Edward 's continued affection for herself which she rather wished to do away ; and Marianne 's courage soon failed her , in trying to converse upon a topic which always left her more dissatisfied with herself than ever , by the comparison it necessarily produced between Elinor 's conduct and her own .  `` Engaged !  I a child , and thou a lamb , We are called by His name .  turning away distressed .  This was all sent with the instrument .  He was afraid not even Miss Woodhouse '' -- he stopt a moment -- '' or Miss Smith could inspire him . ''  Harriet had been at Hartfield , as usual , soon after breakfast ; and , after a time , had gone home to return again to dinner : she returned , and sooner than had been talked of , and with an agitated , hurried look , announcing something extraordinary to have happened which she was longing to tell .  growled Buster Bear .  `` While her dear father lived , any change of condition must be impossible for her .  `` That is , '' replied Mr. Knightley , `` she will indulge her even more than she did you , and believe that she does not indulge her at all .  roll around ! ''  `` I am afraid , Miss Marianne , '' said Sir John , `` you have not been able to take your usual walk to Allenham today . ''  screamed Sammy until his throat was sore .  He made no answer ; and soon afterwards , by the removal of the tea-things , and the arrangement of the card parties , the subject was necessarily dropped .  How inconsiderate , how indelicate , how irrational , how unfeeling had been her conduct !  But his spirits were soon rising again , and with laughing eyes , after mentioning the expected return of the Campbells , he named the name of Dixon. -- Emma blushed , and forbade its being pronounced in her hearing .  Then they looked at each other and made all kinds of funny motions in their delight .  If it were to be shared with the woman he loved , he could not think any man to be pitied for having that house .  `` And I do assure you , ma'am , '' pursued Mrs Croft , `` that nothing can exceed the accommodations of a man-of-war ; I speak , you know , of the higher rates .  It was most unlikely , therefore , that he should ever want his father 's assistance .  `` Oh !  Surely this must be calm enough .  When we came back from Minehead he was gone down to Edward 's , and there he has been ever since .  She spoke , and seemed only to offend .  She gained on them , however , involuntarily : the child 's pace was quick , and theirs rather slow ; and she was the more concerned at it , from their being evidently in a conversation which interested them .  It is a beautiful moonlight night ; and so mild that I must draw back from your great fire . ''  And as he looked for a way of escape , the braces of the millstones broke with the strong grinding , and fell in two .  `` Aye , I believe that will be best for her .  He agreed that he might .  'Lord ! '  Now there is nothing grandmama loves better than sweetbread and asparagus -- so she was rather disappointed , but we agreed we would not speak of it to any body , for fear of its getting round to dear Miss Woodhouse , who would be so very much concerned ! -- Well , this is brilliant !  `` You have asserted nothing contradictory to what Mr Elliot appeared to be some years ago .  How can I tune my little heart To sweetly sing all day ?  `` No , I do not know that Mr. Wingfield considers it _very_ sickly except --  `` I do not know , my dear .  The little gold ring began to feel tight and uncomfortable .  Her accommodations were limited to a noisy parlour , and a dark bedroom behind , with no possibility of moving from one to the other without assistance , which there was only one servant in the house to afford , and she never quitted the house but to be conveyed into the warm bath .  Time , you may be sure , will make one or the other of us think differently ; and , in the meanwhile , we need not talk much on the subject . ''  Jane will be treated with such regard and kindness ! -- It will be nothing but pleasure , a life of pleasure. -- And her salary ! -- I really can not venture to name her salary to you , Miss Woodhouse .  and as she could not even wish him successful , she heartily wished him indifferent .  I am not going to marry Mr Elliot .  Now Emma was obliged to think of the pianoforte ; and the remembrance of all her former fanciful and unfair conjectures was so little pleasing , that she soon allowed herself to believe her visit had been long enough ; and , with a repetition of every thing that she could venture to say of the good wishes which she really felt , took leave .  Perhaps he had something else on his mind .  I have no reason , from any thing that has fallen within my observation , to do otherwise .  ROBERT OF SICILY An old legend says that there was once a king named Robert of Sicily , who was brother to the Great Pope of Rome and to the Emperor of Allemaine .  If she suspected ANY prepossession elsewhere , it could not be in THAT quarter .  Mary talked , but she could not attend .  Mrs Croft , though neither tall nor fat , had a squareness , uprightness , and vigour of form , which gave importance to her person .  THE CLOUD One hot summer morning a little Cloud rose out of the sea and floated lightly and happily across the blue sky .  `` Oh , yes ; and as like him as she can stare .  Folly is an endless maze ; Tangled roots perplex her ways ; How many have fallen there !  Has he been acting a part in his behaviour to your sister all this time ?  Nothing seemed amiss on the side of the Great House family , which was generally , as Anne very well knew , the least to blame .  Mr. Woodhouse was quite at ease ; and the seeing him so , with the arrival of the little boys and the philosophic composure of her brother on hearing his fate , removed the chief of even Emma 's vexation .  That there was to be such a party had been long generally known : it had even given the idea of another .  `` No , my dear , I never encouraged any body to marry , but I would always wish to pay every proper attention to a lady -- and a bride , especially , is never to be neglected .  She instantly begged her sister would entreat Lady Middleton to take them home , as she was too miserable to stay a minute longer .  when shall I leave you again ? ''  The country round Lyme is very fine .  When Lady Russell not long afterwards , was entering Bath on a wet afternoon , and driving through the long course of streets from the Old Bridge to Camden Place , amidst the dash of other carriages , the heavy rumble of carts and drays , the bawling of newspapermen , muffin-men and milkmen , and the ceaseless clink of pattens , she made no complaint .  He made little Mr. Gartersnake set Master Stickytoes free and held Mr. Gartersnake until Master Stickytoes was safely out of reach .  Where Miss Taylor failed to stimulate , I may safely affirm that Harriet Smith will do nothing. -- You never could persuade her to read half so much as you wished. -- You know you could not . ''  It had been the effect of over-persuasion .  So he hurried to the Smiling Pool , where he was sure he would find Billy Mink and Jerry Muskrat and Grandfather Frog and Spotty the Turtle , and he hoped that perhaps some of the little people who live in the Green Forest might be there too .  Your views for Harriet are best known to yourself ; but as you make no secret of your love of match-making , it is fair to suppose that views , and plans , and projects you have ; -- and as a friend I shall just hint to you that if Elton is the man , I think it will be all labour in vain . ''  `The consequence , ' said she , `has been a state of perpetual suffering to me ; and so it ought .  They afforded her no companion that could make amends for what she had left behind , nor that could teach her to think of Norland with less regret than ever .  You only mean , that he intends it . ''  He is so very strict and scrupulous in his notions ; over-scrupulous I must say .  Marianne looked again ; her heart sunk within her ; and abruptly turning round , she was hurrying back , when the voices of both her sisters were raised to detain her ; a third , almost as well known as Willoughby 's , joined them in begging her to stop , and she turned round with surprise to see and welcome Edward Ferrars .  So the Tortoise was sent for .  Mrs. Jennings directly gave her the gratifying assurance that she certainly would NOT , and Miss Steele was made completely happy .  If we find they correspond , every fear of mine will be removed . ''  She longed to see the Crofts ; but when the meeting took place , it was evident that no rumour of the news had yet reached them .  The idea of Mr. Elton was certainly cheering ; but still , after a time , she was tender-hearted again towards the rejected Mr. Martin .  `` I am monstrous glad of it .  In his preceding attempts to attach himself to Louisa Musgrove ( the attempts of angry pride ) , he protested that he had for ever felt it to be impossible ; that he had not cared , could not care , for Louisa ; though till that day , till the leisure for reflection which followed it , he had not understood the perfect excellence of the mind with which Louisa 's could so ill bear a comparison , or the perfect unrivalled hold it possessed over his own .  Opposition on so tender a subject would only attach her the more to her own opinion .  By all their calculations there was just time for this ; but as they drew near the Cobb , there was such a general wish to walk along it once more , all were so inclined , and Louisa soon grew so determined , that the difference of a quarter of an hour , it was found , would be no difference at all ; so with all the kind leave-taking , and all the kind interchange of invitations and promises which may be imagined , they parted from Captain and Mrs Harville at their own door , and still accompanied by Captain Benwick , who seemed to cling to them to the last , proceeded to make the proper adieus to the Cobb .  He could only plead an ignorance of his own heart , and a mistaken confidence in the force of his engagement .  My courage rises while I write .  He was either less disposed for it than Charles had imagined , or he was too shy ; and after giving him a week 's indulgence , Lady Russell determined him to be unworthy of the interest which he had been beginning to excite .  The man grew frantic when he heard it .  I smile because you smile , and shall probably suspect whatever I find you suspect ; but at present I do not see what there is to question .  But perhaps if she were to leave the room vacant , we might not be invited .  `` Dear Ma'am , '' replied Elinor , smiling at the difference of the complaints for which it was recommended , `` how good you are !  Then here is my last , '' -- unclosing a pretty sketch of a gentleman in small size , whole-length -- '' my last and my best -- my brother , Mr. John Knightley. -- This did not want much of being finished , when I put it away in a pet , and vowed I would never take another likeness .  `` Never marry ! -- This is a new resolution . ''  They were engaged about the end of that time to attend Lady Middleton to a party , from which Mrs. Jennings was kept away by the indisposition of her youngest daughter ; and for this party , Marianne , wholly dispirited , careless of her appearance , and seeming equally indifferent whether she went or staid , prepared , without one look of hope or one expression of pleasure .  `` And , moreover , if you must go to the sea , it had better not have been to South End .  Then there was another yell .  Her intentions were unchanged .  They gave themselves up wholly to their sorrow , seeking increase of wretchedness in every reflection that could afford it , and resolved against ever admitting consolation in future .  This was dreadful .  though we have suffered dreadfully , we are both quite well now , and as happy as we must always be in one another 's love .  No indeed ! -- There was not a hint of Mr. Martin .  For Mercy has a human heart Pity , a human face ; And Love , the human form divine ; And Peace , the human dress .  He did it just to keep from being lonesome .  THEY only knew how little he had had to tempt him to be disobedient , and how small was the consolation , beyond the consciousness of doing right , that could remain to him in the loss of friends and fortune .  On one other question which perhaps her utmost wisdom might not have prevented , she was soon spared all suspense ; for , after the Miss Musgroves had returned and finished their visit at the Cottage she had this spontaneous information from Mary : --  Have you forgot , Marianne , how many pleasant days we have owed to them ? ''  `` Butter ! ''  Oh !  She saw in it but an aggravation of the evil .  `` Yes ; and heaven knows how much longer we may have to wait .  But I can remember nothing ; -- not even that particular riddle which you have heard me mention ; I can only recollect the first stanza ; and there are several .  `` It 's very curious , '' muttered Buster , `` very curious indeed .  cried Elinor ; `` have you been repeating to me what you only learnt yourself by listening at the door ?  She will enjoy the scheme , I am sure ; and I do not know a properer person for shewing us how to do away difficulties .  `` This little rectory CAN do no more than make Mr. Ferrars comfortable as a bachelor ; it can not enable him to marry .  They were never tolerated at Maple Grove .  She recognised the whole of Lucy in the message , and was very confident that Edward would never come near them .  He and I have been at times thrown a good deal together , while you have been wholly engrossed on the most affectionate principle by my mother .  I have known a face not materially disfigured by a few , but he abominates them .  Emma was gratified , and would soon have shewn no want of words , if the sound of Mrs. Elton 's voice from the sitting-room had not checked her , and made it expedient to compress all her friendly and all her congratulatory sensations into a very , very earnest shake of the hand .  -- he cried , in the same eager tone. -- `` Then she has forgiven me before she ought to have done it .  Do you think him so very plain ? ''  Here Anne spoke --  `` Thank you .  Mrs. Jennings was not struck by the same thought ; for soon after his entrance , she walked across the room to the tea-table where Elinor presided , and whispered -- `` The Colonel looks as grave as ever you see .  These kind of things are very well at Christmas , when one is sitting round the fire ; but quite out of place , in my opinion , when one is exploring about the country in summer .  `` I did , '' replied Emma , `` and they can not forgive me . ''  yes , quite well ; and so full of your praises , he did nothing but say fine things of you . ''  You know James Benwick . ''  She was deeply ashamed , and a little afraid of his next look .  It is Anne 's own proposal , and so I shall go with you , which will be a great deal better , for I have not dined at the other house since Tuesday . ''  `` You talk a great deal of the length of this passage , my dear .  The bustle and joy of such an arrival , the many to be talked to , welcomed , encouraged , and variously dispersed and disposed of , produced a noise and confusion which his nerves could not have borne under any other cause , nor have endured much longer even for this ; but the ways of Hartfield and the feelings of her father were so respected by Mrs. John Knightley , that in spite of maternal solicitude for the immediate enjoyment of her little ones , and for their having instantly all the liberty and attendance , all the eating and drinking , and sleeping and playing , which they could possibly wish for , without the smallest delay , the children were never allowed to be long a disturbance to him , either in themselves or in any restless attendance on them .  A Hartfield edition of Shakespeare would have a long note on that passage . ''  Let the Tiger eat the Brahmin . ''  Though the morning was cold , Tom was happy and warm : So , if all do their duty , they need not fear harm .  But he did n't get so much as a nibble .  I see no advantage in consulting Miss Bates . ''  I have spent so many happy months there !  Nothing escaped HER minute observation and general curiosity ; she saw every thing , and asked every thing ; was never easy till she knew the price of every part of Marianne 's dress ; could have guessed the number of her gowns altogether with better judgment than Marianne herself , and was not without hopes of finding out before they parted , how much her washing cost per week , and how much she had every year to spend upon herself .  Was not that a strange thing ?  The lazy man jumped on its back , a very queer , low back .  Yes , Sir , it was puzzling .  There had been a time , Mrs Smith told her , when her spirits had nearly failed .  He is going to Kingston .  His ideas seemed more moderate -- his feelings warmer .  Of course , he hit the ground pretty hard , and for just a second he quite lost his breath .  `` Such weather makes every thing and every body disgusting .  The folly of the means they often employ is only to be equalled by the folly of what they have in view . ''  But why should not I wear pink ribbons ?  oh !  Then the great war came , the Civil War .  Our ages were nearly the same , and from our earliest years we were playfellows and friends .  I never can be blameless .  Slowly a bright tear fell and splashed the dust .  Mr Elliot was in Bath .  We certainly do not forget you as soon as you forget us .  She did most heartily grieve over the idleness of her childhood -- and sat down and practised vigorously an hour and a half .  but I never have been in love ; it is not my way , or my nature ; and I do not think I ever shall .  And the Wind blew him straight up to the top of the church steeple , and stuck him there , fast !  He frightened the fish so that they fled in every direction .  One moment she feared that no serious design had ever been formed on his side ; and the next that some unfortunate quarrel had taken place between him and her sister ; -- the distress in which Marianne had quitted the room was such as a serious quarrel could most reasonably account for , though when she considered what Marianne 's love for him was , a quarrel seemed almost impossible .  No .  `` Like him ! ''  What is passable in youth is detestable in later age .  If the violence of her passions , the weakness of her understanding -- I do not mean , however , to defend myself .  `` This man is almost too gallant to be in love , '' thought Emma .  They were lucky enough to find Lady Middleton at home , and Sir John came in before their visit ended .  `` The book says there is a Nightingale , '' said the Emperor .  But there are many works well worth reading at the Park ; and there are others of more modern production which I know I can borrow of Colonel Brandon .  `` I hope not _that_. -- It is not likely .  That day a customer came and bought both pairs , and paid so much for them that the shoemaker bought leather for four pairs , with the money .  `` I saw her answer ! -- nothing could be clearer . ''  `` I am afraid it can not take place very soon . ''  `` Yes , our good Mrs. Elton .  The struggle was great -- but it ended too soon .  When they came to the place where Buster was waiting , all he had to do was to scoop them out on to the bank .  A line from me would bring you a little host of acquaintance ; and my particular friend , Mrs. Partridge , the lady I have always resided with when in Bath , would be most happy to shew you any attentions , and would be the very person for you to go into public with . ''  Short letters from Frank were received at Randalls , communicating all that was immediately important of their state and plans .  And her mother too , Mrs. Ferrars , a very good-natured woman , I am sure it would give her great pleasure ; she said as much the other day . ''  He was accused of having a delightful voice , and a perfect knowledge of music ; which was properly denied ; and that he knew nothing of the matter , and had no voice at all , roundly asserted .  We must do whatever is to be done quickest , and I think our feelings will lose no time there .  I do not know whether you have ever happened to see any of her performances before , but she is in general reckoned to draw extremely well . ''  Her spirits still continued very high ; but there was a flutter in them which prevented their giving much pleasure to her sister , and this agitation increased as the evening drew on .  `` Shall we see you tomorrow to dinner ? ''  The giant drank that up while it was boiling .  `` Oh , my dear Miss Dashwood , '' said Mrs. Palmer soon afterwards , `` I have got such a favour to ask of you and your sister .  It was selfishness which first made him sport with your affections ; which afterwards , when his own were engaged , made him delay the confession of it , and which finally carried him from Barton .  I have never been attached to him .  What immediately followed is known .  `` What is it ? ''  My mother desires her very best compliments and regards , and a thousand thanks , and says you really quite oppress her . ''  Troubled , wildered , and forlorn , Dark , benighted , travel-worn , Over many a tangle spray , All heart-broke , I heard her say : `` Oh my children !  If a rich admiral were to come in our way , Sir Walter -- ''  `` No -- Mrs. Knightley ; -- and till she is in being , I will manage such matters myself . ''  `` Colonel Wallis !  `` I wish I had any name but Elliot .  Dixon in them . ''  You must have seen that I did .  `` I can not make bread , I can not sweep , I can not sew a seam ; when I was a little girl I never learned to work , and now I can not do anything right .  He went to Highbury the next morning , and satisfied himself on that point .  He had remained in Shropshire , lamenting the blindness of his own pride , and the blunders of his own calculations , till at once released from Louisa by the astonishing and felicitous intelligence of her engagement with Benwick .  That _was_ a sleep !  `` Ah !  `` Oh !  Harriet certainly was not clever , but she had a sweet , docile , grateful disposition , was totally free from conceit , and only desiring to be guided by any one she looked up to .  But now they had seen Buster Bear and Farmer Brown 's boy meet face to face ; and while it was true that Farmer Brown 's boy had run away as fast as ever he could , it was also true that Buster Bear had done the same thing .  So the good Moon made a light and went along with him , and the little trundle-bed boat went sailing down the streets into the main street of the village .  It was to herself an amusing and a very welcome piece of news , as proving that Mr. Elton could not have suffered long ; but she was sorry for Harriet : Harriet must feel it -- and all that she could hope was , by giving the first information herself , to save her from hearing it abruptly from others .  After this there was only the one giant left , and he never came again until the court was finished .  But I beg your pardon ; I have interrupted you .  `` Thank you , '' said he , in an accent of deep mortification , and not another syllable followed .  I shall now go away and live in dread of one event . ''  replied Elinor .  Lodging as I did in Bond Street , there was hardly a day in which I did not catch a glimpse of one or other of you ; and nothing but the most constant watchfulness on my side , a most invariably prevailing desire to keep out of your sight , could have separated us so long .  He dared not come to Bartlett 's Buildings for fear of detection , and though their mutual impatience to meet , was not to be told , they could do nothing at present but write .  Mrs. Dashwood declared they should not stay a minute longer in the house , and your brother was forced to go down upon HIS knees too , to persuade her to let them stay till they had packed up their clothes .  The instrument was unlocked , every body prepared to be charmed , and Marianne , who sang very well , at their request went through the chief of the songs which Lady Middleton had brought into the family on her marriage , and which perhaps had lain ever since in the same position on the pianoforte , for her ladyship had celebrated that event by giving up music , although by her mother 's account , she had played extremely well , and by her own was very fond of it .  You shall find me as stubborn as you can be artful .  The whole party were but just reassembled in the drawing-room when Mr. Weston made his appearance among them .  When the wheat was ripe she said , `` Who will take this wheat to the mill ? ''  Mrs. Jennings therefore attending her up stairs into the sick chamber , to satisfy herself that all continued right , left her there again to her charge and her thoughts , and retired to her own room to write letters and sleep .  By this time everybody in the city knew her .  `` Oh , Lord !  You will hardly believe me -- but twice in one week he and Mr. Bragge went to London and back again with four horses . ''  `` Take me with you ; I must die if I am left here . ''  They tasted so good that he just had to eat and eat and eat .  The evil of a marriage would be much diminished , if Elizabeth were also to marry .  Books of engravings , drawers of medals , cameos , corals , shells , and every other family collection within his cabinets , had been prepared for his old friend , to while away the morning ; and the kindness had perfectly answered .  But she was very anxious to have it done with the least possible pain to him and Elizabeth .  And once , when he was hunting for crabs , he was so hungry that he put his paw into the water after a crab without looking first , -- which you never should do !  `` Why do you smile ? ''  The enclosure of Norland Common , now carrying on , is a most serious drain .  It was very well known that no affection was ever supposed to exist between the children of any man by different marriages ; and why was he to ruin himself , and their poor little Harry , by giving away all his money to his half sisters ?  And now he was making his way through the Green Forest to the Laughing Brook , sure that by the time he had followed it down to the Smiling Pool he would have a fine lot of trout to take home .  She enjoyed the company of the Ducks , because she could talk with them to her heart 's content ; the Tortoise liked to talk .  --  And to propose that she and I should unite to form a musical club !  She was most thankful for her own knowledge of him .  So he did fly up into the sky .  She endeavoured to be composed , and to be just .  Mrs. Jennings laughed heartily ; and Elinor found that in her resolution to know where they had been , she had actually made her own woman enquire of Mr. Willoughby 's groom ; and that she had by that method been informed that they had gone to Allenham , and spent a considerable time there in walking about the garden and going all over the house .  I hope you do not retract what you then said . ''  Mr Elliot married then completely for money ?  Jane Fairfax was an orphan , the only child of Mrs. Bates 's youngest daughter .  Will not it be a good plan ?  Willoughby , on his side , gave every proof of his pleasure in their acquaintance , which an evident wish of improving it could offer .  This was very kind of you to be persuaded to come .  yes '' -- he replied ; `` I was just going to mention it .  Mrs. Dashwood , whose terror as they drew near the house had produced almost the conviction of Marianne 's being no more , had no voice to inquire after her , no voice even for Elinor ; but SHE , waiting neither for salutation nor inquiry , instantly gave the joyful relief ; -- and her mother , catching it with all her usual warmth , was in a moment as much overcome by her happiness , as she had been before by her fears .  CHAPTER 19  He had business at the Crown about his hay , and a great many errands for Mrs. Weston at Ford 's , but he need not hurry any body else . ''  In fact , it does not concern you -- it concerns only myself , -- that is , we hope. -- Humph ! -- In short , my dear Emma , there is no occasion to be so uneasy about it .  But , poor fellow !  But colds were never so prevalent as they have been this autumn .  The situation of Barton , in a county so far distant from Sussex as Devonshire , which , but a few hours before , would have been a sufficient objection to outweigh every possible advantage belonging to the place , was now its first recommendation .  But now , after such dishonorable usage , who can tell what were his designs on her .  A'n't I a good boy ?  Elinor told him that it was .  It makes me envious and miserable ; -- I who have never seen it !  And I watered it in fears Night and morning with my tears , And I sunned it with smiles And with soft deceitful wiles .  `` My goodness , do n't do that !  There was hardly time to talk over the first letter from Enscombe before `` Mr. Elton and his bride '' was in every body 's mouth , and Frank Churchill was forgotten .  `` From something that he said , my dear Emma , I rather imagine -- ''  As a daughter , she hoped she was not without a heart .  I always say a woman can not have too many resources -- and I feel very thankful that I have so many myself as to be quite independent of society . ''  Her eyes were bright and her cheeks glowed ; but she knew nothing about it .  Well , Colonel , I have brought two young ladies with me , you see -- that is , you see but one of them now , but there is another somewhere .  Perhaps Mrs. Jennings was in hopes , by this vigorous sketch of their future ennui , to provoke him to make that offer , which might give himself an escape from it ; -- and if so , she had soon afterwards good reason to think her object gained ; for , on Elinor 's moving to the window to take more expeditiously the dimensions of a print , which she was going to copy for her friend , he followed her to it with a look of particular meaning , and conversed with her there for several minutes .  I should like to see Emma in love , and in some doubt of a return ; it would do her good .  Nothing but a thorough change of sentiment could account for it .  At the time of the ballroom 's being built , suppers had not been in question ; and a small card-room adjoining , was the only addition .  Never had there been seen a finer sight than the grand train , men in bright armour , riders in wonderful cloaks of velvet and silk , servants , carrying marvellous presents to the Pope .  how scared the little Red Hen was !  Exactly so indeed ! ''  ( Flax . )  She thanked him for it with all her heart , spoke of Edward 's principles and disposition with that praise which she knew them to deserve ; and promised to undertake the commission with pleasure , if it were really his wish to put off so agreeable an office to another .  `` I rather think you are mistaken , for when I was talking to her yesterday of getting a new grate for the spare bedchamber , she observed that there was no immediate hurry for it , as it was not likely that the room would be wanted for some time . ''  Sir Walter , indeed , though he had no affection for Anne , and no vanity flattered , to make him really happy on the occasion , was very far from thinking it a bad match for her .  Buster learned a long time ago that a fisherman must be patient unless , like Little Joe Otter , he is just as much at home in the water as the fish themselves , and can swim fast enough to catch them by chasing them .  They were interrupted by the entrance of Margaret ; and Elinor was then at liberty to think over the representations of her mother , to acknowledge the probability of many , and hope for the justice of all .  `` My dear ma'am , '' said Elinor , `` what can you be thinking of ? -- Why , Colonel Brandon 's only object is to be of use to Mr .  Elizabeth arm in arm with Miss Carteret , and looking on the broad back of the dowager Viscountess Dalrymple before her , had nothing to wish for which did not seem within her reach ; and Anne -- but it would be an insult to the nature of Anne 's felicity , to draw any comparison between it and her sister 's ; the origin of one all selfish vanity , of the other all generous attachment .  The wants and sufferings of the poor family , however , were the first subject on meeting .  But happily , either Anne was improved in plumpness and looks , or Lady Russell fancied her so ; and Anne , in receiving her compliments on the occasion , had the amusement of connecting them with the silent admiration of her cousin , and of hoping that she was to be blessed with a second spring of youth and beauty .  I was at Plymouth dreading to hear of him ; he sent in letters , but the Grappler was under orders for Portsmouth .  `` Mr. Martin !  We had not been six hours in the Sound , when a gale came on , which lasted four days and nights , and which would have done for poor old Asp in half the time ; our touch with the Great Nation not having much improved our condition .  The moment he was out he sprang on the Brahmin , and was about to eat him up .  Why did Mr Elliot draw back ? ''  Miss Woodhouse was so great a personage in Highbury , that the prospect of the introduction had given as much panic as pleasure ; but the humble , grateful little girl went off with highly gratified feelings , delighted with the affability with which Miss Woodhouse had treated her all the evening , and actually shaken hands with her at last !  The name of Walter I can drop , thank God !  He gave one frightened look at Farmer Brown 's boy , and then with a mighty `` Woof ! ''  I wished for him again the next summer , when I had still the same luck in the Mediterranean . ''  She did not always feel so absolutely satisfied with herself , so entirely convinced that her opinions were right and her adversary 's wrong , as Mr. Knightley .  The misfortune of your birth ought to make you particularly careful as to your associates .  But there was no peculiar disgrace in this ; for it was very much the case with the chief of their visitors , who almost all laboured under one or other of these disqualifications for being agreeable -- Want of sense , either natural or improved -- want of elegance -- want of spirits -- or want of temper .  You think you carry it off very well , I dare say , but with you it is a sort of bravado , an air of affected unconcern ; I always observe it whenever I meet you under those circumstances .  my poor dear child , the truth is , that in London it is always a sickly season .  she said .  `` It 's news -- great news ! ''  Miss Harville only died last June .  If he does , however , they will leave me in peace , which may be a decent equivalent for the reversion .  Miss Nash , head-teacher at Mrs. Goddard 's , had written out at least three hundred ; and Harriet , who had taken the first hint of it from her , hoped , with Miss Woodhouse 's help , to get a great many more .  We do not often look upon fine young men , well-bred and agreeable .  Mrs Harville was a very experienced nurse , and her nursery-maid , who had lived with her long , and gone about with her everywhere , was just such another .  She was put down in Camden Place ; and Lady Russell then drove to her own lodgings , in Rivers Street .  I am sure you always thought me unfit for the office I held . ''  My spirits rallied with the morning , and I felt that I had still a motive for remaining here . ''  Thank you , my mother is remarkably well .  Then the song would swell out louder , and every warrior would remember only the glory he had helped win for the king ; and each man would rise at the great table , his cup in his hand , and shout `` Long live the King ! ''  `` I shall have a charming account to carry to Fanny , '' said he , as he walked back with his sister .  On their first coming into the country , they had lived in proportion to their income , quietly , keeping little company , and that little unexpensively ; but the last year or two had brought them a considerable increase of means -- the house in town had yielded greater profits , and fortune in general had smiled on them .  She could not be too soon alarmed , nor send for Perry too often .  `` I can not imagine why they should suppose I should not like a long walk , '' said Mary , as she went up stairs .  After the waste of a few minutes in saying the proper nothings , she began to give the invitation which was to comprise all the remaining dues of the Musgroves .  Emma knew it to have been very much the case .  `` I shall always think myself very much obliged to you . ''  `` True , '' said Anne , `` very true ; I did not recollect ; but what shall we say now , Captain Harville ?  Did you never hear him talk of Mr .  The tailor went out then , and he got a sheepskin , which he sewed up until he made a bag of it , and he slipped it down under his coat .  You are very kind .  `` Captain Wentworth , which way are you going ?  I thought you would , he is so pleasant ; and Mr. Palmer is excessively pleased with you and your sisters I can tell you , and you ca n't think how disappointed he will be if you do n't come to Cleveland. -- I ca n't imagine why you should object to it . ''  No , thank you ! ''  The children all over the city loved her ; the business men were proud of her ; the poor people all came to her for advice .  It is not a connexion to gratify ; but if Mr. Churchill does not feel that , why should we ?  said she ; `well , that is quite unexpected .  The situation of the house was good .  `` Why , why-e-e ! ''  We must feel that every addition to your father 's society , among his equals or superiors , may be of use in diverting his thoughts from those who are beneath him . ''  After some opposition , Marianne yielded to her sister 's entreaties , and consented to go out with her and Mrs. Jennings one morning for half an hour .  For ten minutes she could hear nothing but herself .  They look in every thoughtless nest Where birds are covered warm ; They visit caves of every beast , To keep them all from harm : If they see any weeping That should have been sleeping , They pour sleep on their head , And sit down by their bed .  Oh !  So at the same time Farmer Brown 's boy started for the Green Forest , this other listener started towards the place where Blacky and Sammy were making such a racket .  The change which a few hours had wrought in the minds and the happiness of the Dashwoods , was such -- so great -- as promised them all , the satisfaction of a sleepless night .  I can imagine , that if you , as you are , Mr. Knightley , were to be transported and placed all at once in Mr. Frank Churchill 's situation , you would be able to say and do just what you have been recommending for him ; and it might have a very good effect .  `` You seem to me to have forgotten Mrs. and Miss Bates , '' said Emma , `` I have not heard one inquiry after them . ''  His person and air were equal to what her fancy had ever drawn for the hero of a favourite story ; and in his carrying her into the house with so little previous formality , there was a rapidity of thought which particularly recommended the action to her .  Mrs. Weston remained with Mr. Woodhouse .  Anne was shewn some letters of his on the occasion , answers to urgent applications from Mrs Smith , which all breathed the same stern resolution of not engaging in a fruitless trouble , and , under a cold civility , the same hard-hearted indifference to any of the evils it might bring on her .  So one night , after the shoemaker had left the pieces of leather on the bench , he and his wife hid themselves behind a curtain , and left a light in the room .  He went on until it was all poured into the skin , and the giant thought he had drunk it .  --  I , being a husband , and you not being a wife , the claims of the man may very likely strike us with equal force .  In fury , he ordered Suliman to be put in fetters and brought before him .  It is a land of poverty !  Death had put on the Emperor 's gold crown , and he had the gold sceptre in one hand , and the silken banner in the other ; and he looked at the Emperor with his great hollow eyes .  Too bad !  La !  I had not thought of it before , but that is the best way .  `` Did not I tell you , Sir John , when you spoke to me about it before , that it could not be done ?  It was not merely complaisance , it must be a liking to the cause , which made him enter warmly into her father and sister 's solicitudes on a subject which she thought unworthy to excite them .  and `` John , how are you ? ''  `` Bread ! ! ! ''  When is a man to be safe from such wit , if age and infirmity will not protect him ? ''  I knew how soon he would come . ''  `` And had you really some at hand yourself ?  In marrying a man indifferent to me , all risk would have been incurred , and all duty violated . ''  The event has proved , that I was a cunning fool , providing with great circumspection for a possible opportunity of making myself contemptible and wretched for ever .  We must look to her one fault , and remember that she had done a wrong thing in consenting to the engagement , to bear that she should have been in such a state of punishment . ''  _Now_ I shall really be very happy to walk into the same room with you . ''  He was looked on as sufficiently belonging to the place to make his merits and prospects a kind of common concern .  And in the next ray of moonlight that broke the dark clouds , he saw that he was mounted on a monster crab !  She was concerned for the disappointment and pain Lady Russell would be feeling ; for the mortifications which must be hanging over her father and sister , and had all the distress of foreseeing many evils , without knowing how to avert any one of them .  CHAPTER IV  Chapter 6  When Farmer Brown 's boy came hurrying home from the Laughing Brook without any fish one day and told about the great footprint he had seen in a muddy place on the bank deep in the Green Forest , and had said his was sure that it was the footprint of a Bear , he had been laughed at .  I should be extremely sorry to be giving them any pain .  The same manners , however , which recommended Mrs. John Dashwood to the good opinion of Lady Middleton did not suit the fancy of Mrs. Jennings , and to HER she appeared nothing more than a little proud-looking woman of uncordial address , who met her husband 's sisters without any affection , and almost without having anything to say to them ; for of the quarter of an hour bestowed on Berkeley Street , she sat at least seven minutes and a half in silence .  `` We should not like her so well as we do , sir , if we could suppose it ; but she knows how much the marriage is to Miss Taylor 's advantage ; she knows how very acceptable it must be , at Miss Taylor 's time of life , to be settled in a home of her own , and how important to her to be secure of a comfortable provision , and therefore can not allow herself to feel so much pain as pleasure .  `` Her guardians , my dear .  This was so very well understood between them , that Emma could not but feel some surprise , and a little displeasure , on hearing from Mr. Weston that he had been proposing to Mrs. Elton , as her brother and sister had failed her , that the two parties should unite , and go together ; and that as Mrs. Elton had very readily acceded to it , so it was to be , if she had no objection .  said Jane , shaking her head ; `` dear Mrs. Elton , who can have thought of it as I have done ? ''  Charles agreed , but declared his resolution of not going away .  Such confidence , powerful in its own warmth , and bewitching in the wit which often expressed it , must have been enough for Anne ; but Lady Russell saw it very differently .  `` Oh ! ''  It did , however. -- Her father was quite taken up with the surprize of so sudden a journey , and his fears that Mr. Elton might never get safely to the end of it , and saw nothing extraordinary in his language .  The appearance of the servants looking out for them to give notice of the carriages was a joyful sight ; and even the bustle of collecting and preparing to depart , and the solicitude of Mrs. Elton to have _her_ carriage first , were gladly endured , in the prospect of the quiet drive home which was to close the very questionable enjoyments of this day of pleasure .  It was not likely , however , that any body should have equalled her in the date of the plan , as it had entered her brain during the very first evening of Harriet 's coming to Hartfield .  `` I find my appetite is n't what it ought to be .  she found something else must be done .  And then , because Buster Bear always enjoys a good joke even when it is on himself , he laughed until he had to hold his sides , which is a whole lot better than going off in a rage as Little Joe Otter had done .  She sometimes endeavoured for a few minutes to read ; but the book was soon thrown aside , and she returned to the more interesting employment of walking backwards and forwards across the room , pausing for a moment whenever she came to the window , in hopes of distinguishing the long-expected rap .  Harriet looked white and frightened , and he was trying to cheer her. -- The iron gates and the front-door were not twenty yards asunder ; -- they were all three soon in the hall , and Harriet immediately sinking into a chair fainted away .  She went straight to the kind Sisters who had the asylum and told them she was going to give them part of her wages and was going to work for them , besides .  But she shall forgive me again , and on more reasonable grounds. -- NOW will you listen to me ? ''  and Elizabeth , to do her justice , had , in the first ardour of female alarm , set seriously to think what could be done , and had finally proposed these two branches of economy , to cut off some unnecessary charities , and to refrain from new furnishing the drawing-room ; to which expedients she afterwards added the happy thought of their taking no present down to Anne , as had been the usual yearly custom .  It is not that mamma cares about it the least in the world , but I know it is taken notice of by many persons . ''  The only one among them , whose opposition of feeling could excite any serious anxiety was Lady Russell .  dear , yes , '' before the gentleman joined them .  [ Illustration : `` Here 's your trout , Mr .  Thirteen years had passed away since Lady Elliot 's death , and they were still near neighbours and intimate friends , and one remained a widower , the other a widow .  Emma had never been to Box Hill ; she wished to see what every body found so well worth seeing , and she and Mr. Weston had agreed to chuse some fine morning and drive thither .  You see , he knows that Shadow can go wherever he can go .  Emma 's spirits were mounted quite up to happiness ; every thing wore a different air ; James and his horses seemed not half so sluggish as before .  Sweet babe , in thy face Holy image I can trace ; Sweet babe , once like thee Thy Maker lay , and wept for me : Wept for me , for thee , for all , When He was an infant small .  Not that he will value it as he ought , '' he observed , `` Charles is too cool about sporting .  He paused. -- She coloured and laughed. -- '' I know you saw my letter , and think you may remember my wish in your favour .  So much superadded decision of character !  Lady Russell was now perfectly decided in her opinion of Mr Elliot .  Henrietta was exactly in that state of recently-improved views , of fresh-formed happiness , which made her full of regard and interest for everybody she had ever liked before at all ; and Mrs Musgrove 's real affection had been won by her usefulness when they were in distress .  `` We have never finished Hamlet , Marianne ; our dear Willoughby went away before we could get through it .  `` No ! ''  He had to fly away , without seeing her .  certainly , '' was his daughter 's ; but Sir Walter 's remark was , soon afterwards --  CHAPTER 5  He growled and whined and squealed .  And the terrible monster was changed into a pretty little white dog .  There she was welcomed , with the utmost delight , by her father , who had been trembling for the dangers of a solitary drive from Vicarage Lane -- turning a corner which he could never bear to think of -- and in strange hands -- a mere common coachman -- no James ; and there it seemed as if her return only were wanted to make every thing go well : for Mr. John Knightley , ashamed of his ill-humour , was now all kindness and attention ; and so particularly solicitous for the comfort of her father , as to seem -- if not quite ready to join him in a basin of gruel -- perfectly sensible of its being exceedingly wholesome ; and the day was concluding in peace and comfort to all their little party , except herself. -- But her mind had never been in such perturbation ; and it needed a very strong effort to appear attentive and cheerful till the usual hour of separating allowed her the relief of quiet reflection .  We are both prejudiced ; you against , I for him ; and we have no chance of agreeing till he is really here . ''  Of course that was n't nice talk and anything but a nice spirit , but Little Joe Otter 's temper is sometimes pretty short , especially when he is hungry , and this time he had had no breakfast , you know .  ) , they happened to say , that her brother , Captain Wentworth , is just returned to England , or paid off , or something , and is coming to see them almost directly ; and most unluckily it came into mamma 's head , when they were gone , that Wentworth , or something very like it , was the name of poor Richard 's captain at one time ; I do not know when or where , but a great while before he died , poor fellow !  The lawyer plods , quite care-worn ; the physician is up at all hours , and travelling in all weather ; and even the clergyman -- '' she stopt a moment to consider what might do for the clergyman ; -- '' and even the clergyman , you know is obliged to go into infected rooms , and expose his health and looks to all the injury of a poisonous atmosphere .  He was courting her week after week .  He could refer Sir Walter to all who knew him ; and certainly , the pains he had been taking on this , the first opportunity of reconciliation , to be restored to the footing of a relation and heir-presumptive , was a strong proof of his opinions on the subject .  I see you know nothing of the matter .  Can it be Neptune ?  A chaise was sent for from Crewkherne , and Charles conveyed back a far more useful person in the old nursery-maid of the family , one who having brought up all the children , and seen the very last , the lingering and long-petted Master Harry , sent to school after his brothers , was now living in her deserted nursery to mend stockings and dress all the blains and bruises she could get near her , and who , consequently , was only too happy in being allowed to go and help nurse dear Miss Louisa .  He had formerly visited at Stanhill , but it was too long for his young cousins to remember him .  Louisa was much the same .  But Marianne for some time would give credit to neither .  So far it was all as she had foreseen ; but on entering the house she beheld what no foresight had taught her to expect .  `` When I got to Donwell , '' said he , `` Knightley could not be found .  `` I had not the smallest intention of asking him , '' said Elizabeth , with affected carelessness , `` but he gave so many hints ; so Mrs Clay says , at least . ''  However , I will not disturb you ( seeing her preparing to write . )  But when the Otter came back from the river , with a string of fish , he found his babies crushed flat .  We shall not be many , you know . ''  `` If my soul is as these , '' he said , `` I am blessed indeed . ''  Margery found it fascinating to watch the long line of dark earth and green grass come rolling up and turn over , as the knife passed it .  what do you mean ? ''  the peace has come too soon for that younker .  THE LITTLE JACKAL AND THE CAMEL All these stories about the little Jackal that I have told you , show how clever the little Jackal was .  `` Yes , and you may guess who it is for .  All the privilege I claim for my own sex ( it is not a very enviable one ; you need not covet it ) , is that of loving longest , when existence or when hope is gone . ''  For a moment or two she could say no more ; but when this emotion had passed away , she added , in a firmer tone ,  CHAPTER X  Till we arise link 'd in a golden band and never part : But walk united bearing food to all our tender flowers .  This happened again and again , for the prince grew more self-willed and headstrong every day ; he had some bad friends , too , who urged him on , in the hope that he would ruin himself and give them a chance to seize the throne .  `` Does spring hide its joy , When buds and blossoms grow ?  CHAPTER 3  Did I imitate your forbearance , or lessen your restraints , by taking any part in those offices of general complaisance or particular gratitude which you had hitherto been left to discharge alone ? -- No ; -- not less when I knew you to be unhappy , than when I had believed you at ease , did I turn away from every exertion of duty or friendship ; scarcely allowing sorrow to exist but with me , regretting only THAT heart which had deserted and wronged me , and leaving you , for or I professed an unbounded affection , to be miserable for my sake . ''  They therefore set the fox free .  `` You are extremely kind , '' replied Miss Bates , highly gratified ; `` you who are such a judge , and write so beautifully yourself .  `` The rent of this cottage is said to be low ; but we have it on very hard terms , if we are to dine at the park whenever any one is staying either with them , or with us . ''  `` You ? ''  That did not stop them ; they drove him off , with blows , and carried Zelia into a palace in the wood .  Mr. Elton 's engagement had been the cure of the agitation of meeting Mr. Martin .  Mr. Martin is a very respectable young man , but I can not admit him to be Harriet 's equal ; and am rather surprized indeed that he should have ventured to address her .  Harriet had business at Ford's. -- Emma thought it most prudent to go with her .  When Little Joe Otter and Billy Mink reached the Smiling Pool , they climbed up on the Big Rock , and there Little Joe sulked and sulked , until finally Grandfather Frog asked what the matter was .  `` Intimately . ''  But if there should by any chance happen to be a woman who is single at seven and twenty , I should not think Colonel Brandon 's being thirty-five any objection to his marrying HER . ''  Come , Miss Marianne , let us strike hands upon the bargain , and if Miss Dashwood will change her mind by and bye , why so much the better . ''  At least , Little Joe did .  Elinor attempted no more .  Sorrow came -- a gentle sorrow -- but not at all in the shape of any disagreeable consciousness. -- Miss Taylor married .  `` Quite seasonable ; and extremely fortunate we may think ourselves that it did not begin yesterday , and prevent this day 's party , which it might very possibly have done , for Mr. Woodhouse would hardly have ventured had there been much snow on the ground ; but now it is of no consequence .  Gone was all their care .  That 's the worst of him . ''  He has seen a great deal of the world ; has been abroad , has read , and has a thinking mind .  We never heard of such things at Maple Grove . ''  She was particularly struck by his manner of considering Mr. Elton 's house , which , as well as the church , he would go and look at , and would not join them in finding much fault with .  She believed he was very clever , and understood every thing .  She still screamed and sobbed lustily , kicked her two brothers for offering to touch her , and all their united soothings were ineffectual till Lady Middleton luckily remembering that in a scene of similar distress last week , some apricot marmalade had been successfully applied for a bruised temple , the same remedy was eagerly proposed for this unfortunate scratch , and a slight intermission of screams in the young lady on hearing it , gave them reason to hope that it would not be rejected. -- She was carried out of the room therefore in her mother 's arms , in quest of this medicine , and as the two boys chose to follow , though earnestly entreated by their mother to stay behind , the four young ladies were left in a quietness which the room had not known for many hours .  To be sure by next week I may be allowed to think it all settled , and build my own selfish schemes on Mr Elliot 's good fortune . ''  He had even refused one regular invitation to dinner ; and having been found on the occasion by Mr Musgrove with some large books before him , Mr and Mrs Musgrove were sure all could not be right , and talked , with grave faces , of his studying himself to death .  They will be much more able to give YOU something . ''  `` I have burnt all your letters , and will return your picture the first opportunity .  Willoughby filled every page .  `` I shall be very glad to look it over , '' said he ; `` but it seems long .  Do you think Lady Russell would like that ? ''  And as I looked at her , though I never saw her appear to more advantage , it struck me that she was heated , and would therefore be particularly liable to take cold .  I am a great dreamer .  You will see them both this morning , I dare say .  `` No , I do not ; that is , I do not mean -- What shall I do ?  Then the tailor said that he would kill the other giant for him , and welcome ; that there should be no delay at all about that .  She was pondering , in the meanwhile , upon the possibility , without seeming very rude , of making her escape from Jane Fairfax 's letter , and had almost resolved on hurrying away directly under some slight excuse , when Miss Bates turned to her again and seized her attention .  no , my love ; but you will soon be tired .  `` This is admiration of a very particular kind ! -- what is Miss Morton to us ? -- who knows , or who cares , for her ? -- it is Elinor of whom WE think and speak . ''  Perhaps he did n't tell it quite exactly as it was , but you know he was very badly frightened at the time .  Your mother will secure to you , in time , that independence you are so anxious for ; it is her duty , and it will , it must ere long become her happiness to prevent your whole youth from being wasted in discontent .  Mrs Clay was very pleasant , and very smiling , but her courtesies and smiles were more a matter of course .  they will hear you . ''  These were pleasant feelings , and she walked about and indulged them till it was necessary to do as the others did , and collect round the strawberry-beds. -- The whole party were assembled , excepting Frank Churchill , who was expected every moment from Richmond ; and Mrs. Elton , in all her apparatus of happiness , her large bonnet and her basket , was very ready to lead the way in gathering , accepting , or talking -- strawberries , and only strawberries , could now be thought or spoken of. -- '' The best fruit in England -- every body 's favourite -- always wholesome. -- These the finest beds and finest sorts. -- Delightful to gather for one 's self -- the only way of really enjoying them. -- Morning decidedly the best time -- never tired -- every sort good -- hautboy infinitely superior -- no comparison -- the others hardly eatable -- hautboys very scarce -- Chili preferred -- white wood finest flavour of all -- price of strawberries in London -- abundance about Bristol -- Maple Grove -- cultivation -- beds when to be renewed -- gardeners thinking exactly different -- no general rule -- gardeners never to be put out of their way -- delicious fruit -- only too rich to be eaten much of -- inferior to cherries -- currants more refreshing -- only objection to gathering strawberries the stooping -- glaring sun -- tired to death -- could bear it no longer -- must go and sit in the shade . ''  yes , and I shall be very happy in his acquaintance .  `` My dear papa , he is three-and-twenty .  And it is so cheerful a place , that it could not fail of being of use to Mr. Woodhouse 's spirits , which , I understand , are sometimes much depressed .  --  I thought it coming on before our acquaintance ceased , but it is now a confirmed feeling .  `` One observation may , I think , be fairly drawn from the whole of the story -- that all Willoughby 's difficulties have arisen from the first offence against virtue , in his behaviour to Eliza Williams .  I detest jargon of every kind , and sometimes I have kept my feelings to myself , because I could find no language to describe them in but what was worn and hackneyed out of all sense and meaning . ''  there are the green tiny berries !  The stream is as good as at first ; the little rubbish it collects in the turnings is easily moved away .  `` That will never be , however , I can assure you .  A few who could neither fly nor climb nor run fast , hid and lay shaking and trembling for fear that Buster would find them .  Mrs. Jennings received the information with a great deal of joy , and many assurances of kindness and care ; nor was it a matter of pleasure merely to her .  Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel and his cousin , Chatterer the Red Squirrel , looking down from another tree , held _their_ breath .  That Lady Russell , of steady age and character , and extremely well provided for , should have no thought of a second marriage , needs no apology to the public , which is rather apt to be unreasonably discontented when a woman does marry again , than when she does not ; but Sir Walter 's continuing in singleness requires explanation .  `` Yes , here I am , my good friend ; and here I have been so long , that anywhere else I should think it necessary to apologise ; but , the truth is , that I am waiting for my lord and master .  Never was a better sloop than the Asp in her day .  The tone implied some old acquaintance -- and how could she possibly guess ?  This hint was enough , Lucy recollected herself instantly and replied , `` Indeed you are very much mistaken , Lady Middleton ; I am only waiting to know whether you can make your party without me , or I should have been at my filigree already .  Every thing that I have said or done , for many weeks past , has been with the sole view of marking my adoration of yourself .  Your treasure waits for you on the heavenly shore just as mine does . ''  `` Well , if he have nothing else to recommend him , he will be a treasure at Highbury .  He entered the room with a look of self-consequence , slightly bowed to the ladies , without speaking a word , and , after briefly surveying them and their apartments , took up a newspaper from the table , and continued to read it as long as he staid .  But now , another occupation and solicitude of mind was beginning to be added to these .  Their housekeeping will be nothing at all .  He had said that Jane Fairfax received attentions from Mrs. Elton which nobody else paid her .  Marianne was in a silent agony , too much oppressed even for tears ; but as Mrs. Jennings was luckily not come home , they could go directly to their own room , where hartshorn restored her a little to herself .  `` To-morrow , Marianne ! ''  I should like to know why you imagine I am ? ''  In the height of her morality , good woman !  `` What !  I am sure if I knew of any thing she would like , I would send all over the town for it .  `` Oh ! ''  I wonder what will become of her ! ''  Tell me how Miss Fairfax is . ''  I am glad I did not think of it before .  I only doubt whether he will ever take us anywhere else .  It looked like this : -- [ Illustration ] `` I brought a two-horse plough because it 's virgin soil , '' the man said .  cried the City Mouse .  I will take it home with me at night . ''  My liveliness and your solidity would produce perfection. -- Not that I presume to insinuate , however , that _some_ people may not think _you_ perfection already. -- But hush ! -- not a word , if you please . ''  `` My , but those sandwiches will taste good , '' thought he .  But I am afraid ; and I should be so very sorry .  The matter itself I could not deny , and vain was every endeavour to soften it .  Now the old Alligator found this out , and he made up his mind to have the little Jackal for supper , or to die trying .  He had been in Bath about a fortnight ; ( he had passed through Bath in November , in his way to London , when the intelligence of Sir Walter 's being settled there had of course reached him , though only twenty-four hours in the place , but he had not been able to avail himself of it ; ) but he had now been a fortnight in Bath , and his first object on arriving , had been to leave his card in Camden Place , following it up by such assiduous endeavours to meet , and when they did meet , by such great openness of conduct , such readiness to apologize for the past , such solicitude to be received as a relation again , that their former good understanding was completely re-established .  `` Being my friend 's , I have no right to expose it in any degree to the public eye , but perhaps you may not dislike looking at it . ''  `` And how could _she_ bear such behaviour !  With the fortitude of a devoted novitiate , she had resolved at one-and-twenty to complete the sacrifice , and retire from all the pleasures of life , of rational intercourse , equal society , peace and hope , to penance and mortification for ever .  `` Nobody knew how much she should suffer .  `` I have not been working uninterruptedly , '' he replied , `` I have been assisting Miss Fairfax in trying to make her instrument stand steadily , it was not quite firm ; an unevenness in the floor , I believe .  He said those had to be transplanted ; they could not be sown from seed .  He asked my opinion as to what he was now to do .  `` It is not fair , '' said Emma , in a whisper ; `` mine was a random guess .  There was so much attachment to Captain Wentworth in all this , and such a bewitching charm in a degree of hospitality so uncommon , so unlike the usual style of give-and-take invitations , and dinners of formality and display , that Anne felt her spirits not likely to be benefited by an increasing acquaintance among his brother-officers .  `` Dear me !  Suddenly it slipped off , so that he could see .  I only wanted to prove to you that Mrs. S. admits our apology , and is not offended .  I was very young , and associated only with the young , and we were a thoughtless , gay set , without any strict rules of conduct .  Jane came back delighted yesterday .  It soon appeared that London was not the place for her .  A short pause succeeded this speech , which was first broken by Miss Steele , who seemed very much disposed for conversation , and who now said rather abruptly , `` And how do you like Devonshire , Miss Dashwood ?  She knew that what Marianne and her mother conjectured one moment , they believed the next -- that with them , to wish was to hope , and to hope was to expect .  She can never be more lost to you than she is now . ''  They have no indoors man , else they do not want for any thing ; and Mrs. Martin talks of taking a boy another year . ''  I can not help suspecting him .  It might be weeks , it might be only a few days , before the horse were useable ; but no preparations could be ventured on , and it was all melancholy stagnation .  `` Oh !  A private dance , without sitting down to supper , was pronounced an infamous fraud upon the rights of men and women ; and Mrs. Weston must not speak of it again .  After talking , however , of the weather , and Bath , and the concert , their conversation began to flag , and so little was said at last , that she was expecting him to go every moment , but he did not ; he seemed in no hurry to leave her ; and presently with renewed spirit , with a little smile , a little glow , he said --  They are a very respectable family , Mr. Ferrars ; and towards us have behaved in the friendliest manner .  He did this so often that at last there was not a single thing left alive in the jungle besides the Lion , except two little Jackals , -- a little father Jackal and a little mother Jackal .  `` What are Mrs. Ferrars 's views for you at present , Edward ? ''  `` Not a walk in the rain , I should imagine . ''  Her departure , therefore , was fixed on ; and within an hour after Mr. Harris 's arrival , she set off , with her little boy and his nurse , for the house of a near relation of Mr. Palmer 's , who lived a few miles on the other side of Bath ; whither her husband promised , at her earnest entreaty , to join her in a day or two ; and whither she was almost equally urgent with her mother to accompany her .  Mrs. Weston proposed having no regular supper ; merely sandwiches , & c. , set out in the little room ; but that was scouted as a wretched suggestion .  Slower , and slower , went the grey donkey ; slower , and slower , till , in the very middle of a pitch-black wood , he stopped and stood still .  Towards the close of it , in the interval succeeding an Italian song , she explained the words of the song to Mr Elliot .  It seemed to announce a different sort of man . ''  God be praised ! -- But is it true ?  And secretly she added to herself , `` Lord bless me !  And then he gave a little gasp of surprise and delight .  Lady Russell , convinced that Anne would not be allowed to be of any use , or any importance , in the choice of the house which they were going to secure , was very unwilling to have her hurried away so soon , and wanted to make it possible for her to stay behind till she might convey her to Bath herself after Christmas ; but having engagements of her own which must take her from Kellynch for several weeks , she was unable to give the full invitation she wished , and Anne though dreading the possible heats of September in all the white glare of Bath , and grieving to forego all the influence so sweet and so sad of the autumnal months in the country , did not think that , everything considered , she wished to remain .  I should wish it . ''  Living constantly with right-minded and well-informed people , her heart and understanding had received every advantage of discipline and culture ; and Colonel Campbell 's residence being in London , every lighter talent had been done full justice to , by the attendance of first-rate masters .  My astonishment ! -- but it would be impossible to describe what I felt .  But , in return , your sister must allow me to feel no more than I profess .  The Churchills might not have a word to say in return ; but then , you would have no habits of early obedience and long observance to break through .  The truth is , he simply has a lot of common sense , which after all is the very best kind of wisdom .  `` I wish , '' said Mrs. Weston , `` one could know which arrangement our guests in general would like best .  Marianne , few as had been her hours of comfort in London , and eager as she had long been to quit it , could not , when it came to the point , bid adieu to the house in which she had for the last time enjoyed those hopes , and that confidence , in Willoughby , which were now extinguished for ever , without great pain .  Chapter 4  He came to ask me whether I thought it would be imprudent in him to settle so early ; whether I thought her too young : in short , whether I approved his choice altogether ; having some apprehension perhaps of her being considered ( especially since _your_ making so much of her ) as in a line of society above him .  Mr. Weston , who had been a widower so long , and who seemed so perfectly comfortable without a wife , so constantly occupied either in his business in town or among his friends here , always acceptable wherever he went , always cheerful -- Mr. Weston need not spend a single evening in the year alone if he did not like it .  This is strange indeed , when your eyes have been reproaching them every day for incautiousness . ''  Neither Lady Russell nor Mr Elliot could admire the letter ; but it did all that was wanted , in bringing three lines of scrawl from the Dowager Viscountess .  Her objections to Mr. Knightley 's marrying did not in the least subside .  `` Or rather , as I believe , she considers them impossible to exist . ''  And why does he regret it ? -- Because he finds it has not answered towards himself .  `` The idea ! ''  The case is , you see , that the Campbells are going to Ireland .  Intimacy between Miss Fairfax and me is quite out of the question .  Many a time has she said so ; and yet I am no advocate for entire seclusion .  So there is no doubt that when Buster took them , he stole them .  Mrs. Dashwood remained at Norland several months ; not from any disinclination to move when the sight of every well known spot ceased to raise the violent emotion which it produced for a while ; for when her spirits began to revive , and her mind became capable of some other exertion than that of heightening its affliction by melancholy remembrances , she was impatient to be gone , and indefatigable in her inquiries for a suitable dwelling in the neighbourhood of Norland ; for to remove far from that beloved spot was impossible .  They were a couple worth looking at .  You will not like staying late .  It soon appeared that he came to announce an improvement .  This specimen of the Miss Steeles was enough .  We will go to Hartfield afterwards .  Everybody has their taste in noises as well as in other matters ; and sounds are quite innoxious , or most distressing , by their sort rather than their quantity .  Mr. Palmer took no notice of her .  She was not thoroughly comfortable herself .  `` I have very little to say for my own conduct. -- I was tempted by his attentions , and allowed myself to appear pleased. -- An old story , probably -- a common case -- and no more than has happened to hundreds of my sex before ; and yet it may not be the more excusable in one who sets up as I do for Understanding .  Harriet was to be there in the evening , and the Bateses .  said the Tiger .  Absolute neglect of the mother and sisters , when invited to come , would be ingratitude .  She saw how her own character was considered by Captain Wentworth , and there had been just that degree of feeling and curiosity about her in his manner which must give her extreme agitation .  Elton , and Miss Hawkins ! -- Good morning to you . ''  Is not she an angel in every gesture ?  Her family had of late been exceedingly fluctuating .  He did not believe it to proceed from any thing that care and medicine might not remove , or at least that she might not have many years of existence before her ; but he could not be prevailed on , by all his father 's doubts , to say that her complaints were merely imaginary , or that she was as strong as ever .  he can see ready wit in Harriet , but will not dine alone for her . ''  Then he tied the end of the rope tightly round the Elephant 's trunk , and ran away into the bushes .  I do look forward to it , I own , with _very_ great pleasure . ''  Now , it so happened that in spite of Emma 's resolution of never marrying , there was something in the name , in the idea of Mr. Frank Churchill , which always interested her .  You are always labouring and toiling , exposed to every risk and hardship .  Early , I know , you had none . ''  They came to cut the big trees down and carry them away .  she is a sweet creature !  And their son does never shine , And their fields are bleak and bare , And their ways are filled with thorns : It is eternal winter there .  My mother does not hear ; she is a little deaf you know .  Till he came and had examined the child , their apprehensions were the worse for being vague ; they suspected great injury , but knew not where ; but now the collar-bone was soon replaced , and though Mr Robinson felt and felt , and rubbed , and looked grave , and spoke low words both to the father and the aunt , still they were all to hope the best , and to be able to part and eat their dinner in tolerable ease of mind ; and then it was , just before they parted , that the two young aunts were able so far to digress from their nephew 's state , as to give the information of Captain Wentworth 's visit ; staying five minutes behind their father and mother , to endeavour to express how perfectly delighted they were with him , how much handsomer , how infinitely more agreeable they thought him than any individual among their male acquaintance , who had been at all a favourite before .  If you will have such ideas !  Here is the rivet of your mistress 's spectacles out .  As the Miss Dashwoods entered the drawing-room of the park the next day , at one door , Mrs. Palmer came running in at the other , looking as good humoured and merry as before .  Emma soon recollected , and understood him ; and while she joined in the laugh , it was evident from Jane 's countenance that she too was really hearing him , though trying to seem deaf .  The hint was immediately taken up by Mr Shepherd , whose interest was involved in the reality of Sir Walter 's retrenching , and who was perfectly persuaded that nothing would be done without a change of abode .  Her first communication had reached no farther than to state the fact of the engagement , and the length of time it had existed. -- Marianne 's feelings had then broken in , and put an end to all regularity of detail ; and for some time all that could be done was to soothe her distress , lessen her alarms , and combat her resentment .  It shut behind him , and he was in a little room .  So he didn't whistle as he felt like doing , and he tried not to make a bit of noise as he followed an old cow-path towards a place where he knew the berries grew thick and oh , so big , and all the time he kept his eyes wide open , and he kept his ears open too .  Her father 's comfort was amply secured , Mrs. Bates as well as Mrs. Goddard being able to come ; and her last pleasing duty , before she left the house , was to pay her respects to them as they sat together after dinner ; and while her father was fondly noticing the beauty of her dress , to make the two ladies all the amends in her power , by helping them to large slices of cake and full glasses of wine , for whatever unwilling self-denial his care of their constitution might have obliged them to practise during the meal. -- She had provided a plentiful dinner for them ; she wished she could know that they had been allowed to eat it .  For , washed in life 's river , My bright mane for ever Shall shine like the gold , As I guard o'er the fold . ''  Mrs Clay decidedly thought it Mr Elliot 's knock . ''  Who was it ?  I shall speak a good word for you to all the young men , you may depend upon it . ''  `` No , my dear , '' said her father instantly ; `` _that_ I am sure you are not .  He seemed to have all the life and spirit , cheerful feelings , and social inclinations of his father , and nothing of the pride or reserve of Enscombe .  Anne found a nice seat for her , on a dry sunny bank , under the hedge-row , in which she had no doubt of their still being , in some spot or other .  At the same moment , Prince Cherry felt himself being transported to a distant forest , where he was set down by a clear stream .  All the strong men of Israel went up to the battle , to fight for their king .  She had heard , as soon as she got back to Mrs. Goddard 's , that Mr. Martin had been there an hour before , and finding she was not at home , nor particularly expected , had left a little parcel for her from one of his sisters , and gone away ; and on opening this parcel , she had actually found , besides the two songs which she had lent Elizabeth to copy , a letter to herself ; and this letter was from him , from Mr. Martin , and contained a direct proposal of marriage .  Her sister was perhaps laid down upon the bed , or in her dressing gown , and therefore not able to come to them .  When he had eaten the trout he had caught , he moved along to the next little pool .  `` Your poor mother , too ! -- doting on Marianne . ''  I left her this morning with her lawyer , talking over the business . ''  Mr. Weston was a man of unexceptionable character , easy fortune , suitable age , and pleasant manners ; and there was some satisfaction in considering with what self-denying , generous friendship she had always wished and promoted the match ; but it was a black morning 's work for her .  Her whole name was Margaret Haughery , but no one in New Orleans remembers her by it , any more than you think of your dearest sister by her full name ; she is just Margaret .  She was a great talker upon little matters , which exactly suited Mr. Woodhouse , full of trivial communications and harmless gossip .  The Tiger sprang , but the Brahmin spoke very quickly , -- `` Oh , but this is only the second , Brother Tiger ; you promised to ask five . ''  Elizabeth could not conceive how such an absurd suspicion should occur to her , and indignantly answered for each party 's perfectly knowing their situation .  `` I am the king ! ''  `` There !  Mrs. John Dashwood wished it likewise ; but in the mean while , till one of these superior blessings could be attained , it would have quieted her ambition to see him driving a barouche .  He tried to reason himself out of fears , which the different judgment of the apothecary seemed to render absurd ; but the many hours of each day in which he was left entirely alone , were but too favourable for the admission of every melancholy idea , and he could not expel from his mind the persuasion that he should see Marianne no more .  `` I am so glad to meet you ; '' said Miss Steele , taking her familiarly by the arm -- '' for I wanted to see you of all things in the world . ''  `` There might be scruples of delicacy , my dear Emma .  I defy the armies of Israel this day ; give me a man , that we may fight together ! ''  without partiality ; but Mrs Charles knows no more how they should be treated -- !  Yes !  Lady Middleton could no longer endure such a conversation , and therefore exerted herself to ask Mr. Palmer if there was any news in the paper .  -- Yet he would be so anxious for her being perfectly warm , would be so interested about her father , and so delighted with Mrs. Weston ; and at last would begin admiring her drawings with so much zeal and so little knowledge as seemed terribly like a would-be lover , and made it some effort with her to preserve her good manners .  But the whole of their behaviour to each other has been unaccountable !  Human nature is so well disposed towards those who are in interesting situations , that a young person , who either marries or dies , is sure of being kindly spoken of .  She talked with a great deal of reason , and at least equal affection -- but she had too much to urge for Emma 's attention ; it was soon gone to Brunswick Square or to Donwell ; she forgot to attempt to listen ; and when Mrs. Weston ended with , `` We have not yet had the letter we are so anxious for , you know , but I hope it will soon come , '' she was obliged to pause before she answered , and at last obliged to answer at random , before she could at all recollect what letter it was which they were so anxious for .  I shall hear of every thing that is going on among you .  `` We had better move on , Mr. Weston , '' said she , `` we are detaining the girls . ''  He had a funny feeling , too , that he was being watched , although he could n't see any one .  Marianne looked with amazement at Edward , with compassion at her sister .  And when I brought out the baked apples from the closet , and hoped our friends would be so very obliging as to take some , `Oh ! '  Her manners gave some re-assurance to Edward , and he had courage enough to sit down ; but his embarrassment still exceeded that of the ladies in a proportion , which the case rendered reasonable , though his sex might make it rare ; for his heart had not the indifference of Lucy 's , nor could his conscience have quite the ease of Elinor 's .  He paused a moment , again smiling , with his eyes fixed on her face .  `` She could not make a very long history , I think , of one such little article of unfounded news . ''  Lady Russell could not help laughing .  He knew well enough that some one must have picked them -- for whoever heard of blueberries growing in tin pails ?  there is nothing like staying at home for real comfort .  Somehow or other I never happened to be staying at Barton while he was at Allenham .  He has walked with me , sometimes , from one end of the sands to the other , without saying a word .  `` Something has happened to delay her ; some visitors perhaps . ''  In spite of the improvements and additions which were making to the Norland estate , and in spite of its owner having once been within some thousand pounds of being obliged to sell out at a loss , nothing gave any symptom of that indigence which he had tried to infer from it ; -- no poverty of any kind , except of conversation , appeared -- but there , the deficiency was considerable .  She was convinced that Margaret had fixed on a person whose name she could not bear with composure to become a standing joke with Mrs. Jennings .  Good bye . ''  `` How can that be ?  An old Fox , crafty and sly , had a den in the rocks , on a hill near her house .  She could not think that Harriet 's solace or her own sins required more ; and she was therefore industriously getting rid of the subject as they returned ; -- but it burst out again when she thought she had succeeded , and after speaking some time of what the poor must suffer in winter , and receiving no other answer than a very plaintive -- `` Mr. Elton is so good to the poor ! ''  my father 's next heir ?  Mr. Knightley looked as if he were more gratified than he cared to express ; and before he could make any reply , Mr. Woodhouse , whose thoughts were on the Bates 's , said --  What nonsense one talks , Miss Woodhouse , when hard at work , if one talks at all ; -- your real workmen , I suppose , hold their tongues ; but we gentlemen labourers if we get hold of a word -- Miss Fairfax said something about conjecturing .  Campbell . ''  You never mentioned it before .  `` We can not suppose that she has any great enjoyment at the Vicarage , my dear Emma -- but it is better than being always at home .  The effect of his discourse on the lady too , could not escape her observation , for though she was too honorable to listen , and had even changed her seat , on purpose that she might NOT hear , to one close by the piano forte on which Marianne was playing , she could not keep herself from seeing that Elinor changed colour , attended with agitation , and was too intent on what he said to pursue her employment. -- Still farther in confirmation of her hopes , in the interval of Marianne 's turning from one lesson to another , some words of the Colonel 's inevitably reached her ear , in which he seemed to be apologising for the badness of his house .  The two young men looked at it eagerly , and longed to go nearer .  `` Yes , yes , Mr. Impudence , I know that very well , and I was determined to find out WHERE you had been to. -- I hope you like your house , Miss Marianne .  In the society of his nephew and niece , and their children , the old Gentleman 's days were comfortably spent .  `` I wonder what I 'd better do with it . ''  `` And so you absolutely opened what was directed to her !  And he touched the Little Fir Tree .  And after the battle , David was taken to the king 's tent , and made a captain over many men ; and he went no more to his father 's house , to herd the sheep , but became a man , in the king 's service .  `` How odd , indeed ! ''  Should not you , Marianne ?  It is too unlikely , for me to believe it without proof . ''  CHAPTER XII  He had frequently observed , as he walked , that one handsome face would be followed by thirty , or five-and-thirty frights ; and once , as he had stood in a shop on Bond Street , he had counted eighty-seven women go by , one after another , without there being a tolerable face among them .  She was actually forced to exert herself to meet Lady Russell with anything like the appearance of equal solicitude , on topics which had by nature the first claim on her .  They played me a pitiful trick once : got away with some of my best men .  You did not enjoy them as I did ; you appeared tired the whole time .  `` He is a most fortunate man ! ''  `` Your sister , '' said he , with abruptness , a moment afterwards -- '' is out of danger .  Actually to discover that Mr. Knightley is a gentleman !  I shall not attempt calling on Mrs. Goddard , for I really do not think she cares for any thing but _boiled_ pork : when we dress the leg it will be another thing .  In the present case it took up ten minutes to determine whether the boy were most like his father or mother , and in what particular he resembled either , for of course every body differed , and every body was astonished at the opinion of the others .  said she. -- `` The regularity and despatch of it !  She was good enough for Mr. Elton , no doubt ; accomplished enough for Highbury -- handsome enough -- to look plain , probably , by Harriet 's side .  No one had the key save the prince himself ; yet she was gone .  It had n't entered his head that it could be anybody who would eat those berries .  She came solitarily down the gravel walk -- a Miss Martin just appearing at the door , and parting with her seemingly with ceremonious civility .  By and by , as she sat so still , she heard _tap , tap , tap_ , and _rustle , whisper , rustle_ , up and down the window-pane , and on the door and at the keyhole .  He stood as straight as a mast , and quivered in every needle , for joy .  As the head of the house , he felt that he ought to have been consulted , especially after taking the young man so publicly by the hand ; `` For they must have been seen together , '' he observed , `` once at Tattersall 's , and twice in the lobby of the House of Commons . ''  With this , she bought two cows and a little delivery cart .  `` Was Mr. Ferrars in the carriage with her ? ''  They had run away so many times that they were quite thin and very tired , and they could not run so fast any more .  Harriet , she found , had never in her life been within side the Vicarage , and her curiosity to see it was so extreme , that , considering exteriors and probabilities , Emma could only class it , as a proof of love , with Mr. Elton 's seeing ready wit in her .  He thought of God , and of his own wickedness ; he remembered how selfish he had been , and how little good he had done ; he realised , that his power had not been from himself , at all .  mama , how spiritless , how tame was Edward 's manner in reading to us last night !  Bless me !  You must remember it now ? ''  `` Oh , Mrs. Churchill ; every body knows Mrs. Churchill , '' replied Isabella : `` and I am sure I never think of that poor young man without the greatest compassion .  was Mrs. Weston 's parting question .  But , to be sure , Lucy would not give ear to such kind of talking ; so she told him directly ( with a great deal about sweet and love , you know , and all that -- Oh , la !  HOLY THURSDAY Is this a holy thing to see In a rich and fruitful land , -- Babes reduced to misery , Fed with cold and usurous hand ?  It was but an effusion of lively spirits .  It was merely a blind to conceal his real situation with another. -- It was his object to blind all about him ; and no one , I am sure , could be more effectually blinded than myself -- except that I was _not_ blinded -- that it was my good fortune -- that , in short , I was somehow or other safe from him . ''  The very first subject after being seated was Maple Grove , `` My brother Mr. Suckling 's seat ; '' -- a comparison of Hartfield to Maple Grove .  I am sure she will be an excellent servant ; and it will be a great comfort to poor Miss Taylor to have somebody about her that she is used to see .  There , not to be vulgar , was distinction , and merit .  To be constantly living with an ill-tempered person , must be dreadful .  A little quickness of voice there is which rather hurts the ear .  Not that I imagine he can think I have been encouraging him hitherto .  Buster looked sharply at the shiny thing that held the berries .  And in short , he had looked and said everything with such exquisite grace , that they could assure them all , their heads were both turned by him ; and off they ran , quite as full of glee as of love , and apparently more full of Captain Wentworth than of little Charles .  They had received her doubtingly , if not coolly ; and nothing beyond the merest commonplace had been talked almost all the time -- till just at last , when Mrs. Martin 's saying , all of a sudden , that she thought Miss Smith was grown , had brought on a more interesting subject , and a warmer manner .  He looked completely astonished , but not more astonished than pleased ; his eyes brightened !  Mrs. Jennings , though forced , on examination , to acknowledge a temporary revival , tried to keep her young friend from indulging a thought of its continuance ; -- and Elinor , conning over every injunction of distrust , told herself likewise not to hope .  `` I do not see much sign of it .  When I think of the kindness and favour I have met with , of her excellence and patience , and my uncle 's generosity , I am mad with joy : but when I recollect all the uneasiness I occasioned her , and how little I deserve to be forgiven , I am mad with anger .  `` But what of your good deeds , '' the hermit asked , -- '' what have you done for God ? ''  Harriet , who was standing at some distance , and with face turned from her , did not immediately say any thing ; and when she did speak , it was in a voice nearly as agitated as Emma 's .  But he is a pleasant , good humoured fellow , and has got the nicest little black bitch of a pointer I ever saw .  concluded Little Joe .  `` Certainly not . ''  A new sort of way this , for a young fellow to be making love , by breaking his mistress 's head , is not it , Miss Elliot ?  She observed in a low voice , to her mother , that they were probably going down to Mr. Pratt 's , near Plymouth .  never mind it , for , when your head 's bare , You know that the soot can not spoil your white hair . ''  What a blessing , that she never had any children !  `` My love , it will be scarcely a separation .  Mrs. Weston was sorry for such a charge .  There they returned again into the past , more exquisitely happy , perhaps , in their re-union , than when it had been first projected ; more tender , more tried , more fixed in a knowledge of each other 's character , truth , and attachment ; more equal to act , more justified in acting .  `` I know _that_ is the feeling of you all .  If you meet me at the Big Hickory-tree at sun-up to-morrow morning , and get everybody else to come that you can , perhaps I will tell you . ''  When Little Joe Otter had told how Farmer Brown 's boy had been afraid at the mere sight of one of Buster Bear's big footprints , they had at once made a hero of Buster .  Her little face was so anxious that he thought something unpleasant had happened .  They had in fact nothing to wish for , but the marriage of Colonel Brandon and Marianne , and rather better pasturage for their cows .  This they were glad to do , and their silvery light shone among the branches just like Christmas candles .  So , I made free to wish her joy . ''  I saw she had execution , but I did not know she had any taste .  LITTLE JACK ROLLAROUND Once upon a time there was a wee little boy who slept in a tiny trundle-bed near his mother 's great bed .  Marianne looked as if she had no doubt on that point .  Much as you suffer now , think of what you would have suffered if the discovery of his character had been delayed to a later period -- if your engagement had been carried on for months and months , as it might have been , before he chose to put an end to it .  The party did not break up without Emma 's being positively secured for the two first dances by the hero of the evening , nor without her overhearing Mr. Weston whisper to his wife , `` He has asked her , my dear .  I hope you think Louisa perfectly recovered now ? ''  She had had many a hint from Mr. Knightley and some from her own heart , as to her deficiency -- but none were equal to counteract the persuasion of its being very disagreeable , -- a waste of time -- tiresome women -- and all the horror of being in danger of falling in with the second-rate and third-rate of Highbury , who were calling on them for ever , and therefore she seldom went near them .  I think your manners to him encouraging .  `` It will not be in my power to accept their invitation if they do . ''  Elinor had just been congratulating herself , in the midst of her perplexity , that however difficult it might be to express herself properly by letter , it was at least preferable to giving the information by word of mouth , when her visitor entered , to force her upon this greatest exertion of all .  -- Emma had promised ; but still Harriet must be excepted .  I  But I am not afraid of your seeing what he writes . ''  He felt the disappointment of the young man , and was mortified to have been the means of promoting it , by the sanction he had given ; and the part which he was persuaded Emma had taken in the affair , was provoking him exceedingly .  She still intended him for her friend .  `` News !  `` He is very young to settle , '' was Mr. Woodhouse 's observation .  Poor soul !  I will go and tell Charles , and get ready directly .  Her brother 's return was the first comfort ; he could take best care of his wife ; and the second blessing was the arrival of the apothecary .  `` I had no notion that he liked me so very much , '' said Harriet , contemplating the letter .  She had hoped better things from their high ideas of their own situation in life , and was reduced to form a wish which she had never foreseen ; a wish that they had more pride ; for `` our cousins Lady Dalrymple and Miss Carteret ; '' `` our cousins , the Dalrymples , '' sounded in her ears all day long .  In such moments of precious , invaluable misery , she rejoiced in tears of agony to be at Cleveland ; and as she returned by a different circuit to the house , feeling all the happy privilege of country liberty , of wandering from place to place in free and luxurious solitude , she resolved to spend almost every hour of every day while she remained with the Palmers , in the indulgence of such solitary rambles .  The wife cut out two tiny , tiny coats of green , two weeny , weeny waistcoats of yellow , two little pairs of trousers , of white , two bits of caps , bright red ( for every one knows the elves love bright colours ) , and her husband made two little pairs of shoes with long , pointed toes .  Oh !  On the contrary , if I have felt any anxiety at all on the subject , it has been in recollecting that he sometimes showed a want of pleasure and readiness in accepting my invitation , when I talked of his coming to Barton .  And as to smaller-sized rooms than I had been used to , I really could not give it a thought .  Oh !  said Frank Churchill , as soon as they were out of hearing : -- '' How well they suit one another ! -- Very lucky -- marrying as they did , upon an acquaintance formed only in a public place ! -- They only knew each other , I think , a few weeks in Bath !  `` Yes , very true , '' cried Frank , `` very true .  THE JEALOUS COURTIERS I wonder if you have ever heard the anecdote about the artist of Duesseldorf and the jealous courtiers .  Anne was one of the few who did not choose to move .  Such as Mrs. Elton appeared to her on this second interview , such she appeared whenever they met again , -- self-important , presuming , familiar , ignorant , and ill-bred .  I think you must have imagined it . ''  Fact is , it is very apt To work the other way .  Colonel , '' said she , with her usual noisy cheerfulness , `` I am monstrous glad to see you -- sorry I could not come before -- beg your pardon , but I have been forced to look about me a little , and settle my matters ; for it is a long while since I have been at home , and you know one has always a world of little odd things to do after one has been away for any time ; and then I have had Cartwright to settle with -- Lord , I have been as busy as a bee ever since dinner !  You may guess , therefore , that the news he heard from his friend could not be very agreeable , and you may guess what it produced ; the resolution of coming back to Bath as soon as possible , and of fixing himself here for a time , with the view of renewing his former acquaintance , and recovering such a footing in the family as might give him the means of ascertaining the degree of his danger , and of circumventing the lady if he found it material .  How it might be considered by the rest of the party , she could not tell .  His heart was now open to Elinor , all its weaknesses , all its errors confessed , and his first boyish attachment to Lucy treated with all the philosophic dignity of twenty-four .  But the first customer who came was so pleased with the beautiful shoes that he bought them , and paid so much that the shoemaker was able to buy leather enough for two pairs .  Sweet Sleep , with soft down Weave thy brows an infant crown Sweet Sleep , angel mild , Hover o'er my happy child !  I have three unanswerable reasons for disliking Colonel Brandon ; he threatened me with rain when I wanted it to be fine ; he has found fault with the hanging of my curricle , and I can not persuade him to buy my brown mare .  Somebody said that _Miss_ Gilbert was expected at her brother 's , and must be invited with the rest .  He had not been known to them as a boy ; but soon after Lady Elliot 's death , Sir Walter had sought the acquaintance , and though his overtures had not been met with any warmth , he had persevered in seeking it , making allowance for the modest drawing-back of youth ; and , in one of their spring excursions to London , when Elizabeth was in her first bloom , Mr Elliot had been forced into the introduction .  `` Ah !  Mr Elliot was there ; she avoided , but she could pity him .  A few inferior dwellings were first to be passed , and then , about a quarter of a mile down the lane rose the Vicarage , an old and not very good house , almost as close to the road as it could be .  Something really important seemed announced by his looks ; but , as her friend was well , she endeavoured not to be uneasy , and settling it with her father , that she would take her walk now , she and Mr. Weston were soon out of the house together and on their way at a quick pace for Randalls .  Gilbert would have danced the other evening , if she had been asked .  They were sick with horror , while he examined ; but he was not hopeless .  The poor Hen-mother did everything she could think of to keep him from doing so foolish a thing , but the little Half-Chick laughed at her naughtily .  Have you not seen this ?  I am making a conundrum .  They stirred so that Elsa jumped up and ran to the cooking table , and took hold of the bread board .  No , if he had believed me at all to share his feelings , he would not have been so wretched .  It would be but a new creation , however , and I never think much of your new creations . ''  Her mind was so much weakened that she still fancied present exertion impossible , and therefore it only dispirited her more .  He was satisfied of there being no present danger in returning home , but no assurances could convince him that it was safe to stay ; and while the others were variously urging and recommending , Mr. Knightley and Emma settled it in a few brief sentences : thus --  I am a talker , you know ; I am rather a talker ; and now and then I have let a thing escape me which I should not .  Oh !  Louisa was now recovering apace .  I wish Frederick would spread a little more canvass , and bring us home one of these young ladies to Kellynch .  so silly -- so satisfied -- so smiling -- so prosing -- so undistinguishing and unfastidious -- and so apt to tell every thing relative to every body about me , I would marry to-morrow .  But one or the other , if not both of them , I must have .  `` The whole of his behaviour , '' replied Elinor , `` from the beginning to the end of the affair , has been grounded on selfishness .  He might be superseded by another ; he certainly would indeed ; nothing could be clearer ; even a Robert Martin would have been sufficient ; but nothing else , she feared , would cure her .  Henrietta looked a little ashamed , but very well pleased ; -- Charles Hayter exceedingly happy : and they were devoted to each other almost from the first instant of their all setting forward for Uppercross .  Frank Churchill came back again ; and if he kept his father 's dinner waiting , it was not known at Hartfield ; for Mrs. Weston was too anxious for his being a favourite with Mr. Woodhouse , to betray any imperfection which could be concealed .  I had no right to expect much , and I did not expect much ; but I had no idea that he could be so very clownish , so totally without air .  I hope you are quite well .  He only means -- ''  Once more his prayer was answered .  Reddy doubted because he did n't want to believe .  Every one was so busy watching Farmer Brown 's boy that no one saw Buster coming from the other direction .  But between _us_ , I am convinced there never can be any likeness , except in being unmarried . ''  Anne had been too little from home , too little seen .  The course of true love never did run smooth --  Her 's has been a very short one !  `` Papa , it is glorious ! ''  There could not be an objection .  `` I was wrong , '' he continued , `` in talking of its being _broke_ to you .  `` I'm going to drive all the fish out of the little pools and muddy the water all up .  `` I am sorry to hear you say so , sir ; but I assure you , excepting those little nervous head-aches and palpitations which I am never entirely free from anywhere , I am quite well myself ; and if the children were rather pale before they went to bed , it was only because they were a little more tired than usual , from their journey and the happiness of coming .  `` Oh !  However , as they are so very desirous to have dear Emma dine with them , and as you will both be there , and Mr. Knightley too , to take care of her , I can not wish to prevent it , provided the weather be what it ought , neither damp , nor cold , nor windy . ''  Alas !  Elinor answered in some distress that she was , and then talked of head-aches , low spirits , and over fatigues ; and of every thing to which she could decently attribute her sister 's behaviour .  `` I am forgetting that I am not acquainted with her .  Upon such occasions poor Mr. Woodhouses feelings were in sad warfare .  The Mr Musgroves had their own game to guard , and to destroy , their own horses , dogs , and newspapers to engage them , and the females were fully occupied in all the other common subjects of housekeeping , neighbours , dress , dancing , and music .  Dear Miss Woodhouse , do advise me . ''  Were not you struck ?  You are my best cure . ''  As Elinor was neither musical , nor affecting to be so , she made no scruple of turning her eyes from the grand pianoforte , whenever it suited her , and unrestrained even by the presence of a harp , and violoncello , would fix them at pleasure on any other object in the room .  `` Then I rather suspect that my interest would do very little . ''  As a sort of touchstone , however , she began to speak of his kindness in conveying the aunt and niece ; and though his answer was in the spirit of cutting the matter short , she believed it to indicate only his disinclination to dwell on any kindness of his own .  of South Park , in the county of Gloucester , by which lady ( who died 1800 ) he has issue Elizabeth , born June 1 , 1785 ; Anne , born August 9 , 1787 ; a still-born son , November 5 , 1789 ; Mary , born November 20 , 1791 . ''  Oh !  She dearly loved her father , but he was no companion for her .  The breakfast-room chimney smokes a little , I grant you , but it is only when the wind is due north and blows hard , which may not happen three times a winter .  `` It is very true .  There can be no doubt of your being a gentleman 's daughter , and you must support your claim to that station by every thing within your own power , or there will be plenty of people who would take pleasure in degrading you . ''  `` I have no doubt of it , '' replied Marianne .  A few months had seen the beginning and the end of their acquaintance ; but not with a few months ended Anne 's share of suffering from it .  `` Dear Smith , -- I have received yours .  The sequel explained it .  We are to walk about your gardens , and gather the strawberries ourselves , and sit under trees ; -- and whatever else you may like to provide , it is to be all out of doors -- a table spread in the shade , you know .  .  But I ought to have gone before .  The next minute he said , `` Why , I am half gone ! ''  There will be the leg to be salted , you know , which is so very nice , and the loin to be dressed directly in any manner they like . ''  Hear the truth , therefore , now , while you are unprejudiced .  When the book was written , she called it _Little Women_ , and sent it to the publisher .  `` Watched us out of the house ! ''  he sighed .  Her mother could even think of her being able to join their party at home , before her brothers and sisters went to school again .  `` Well , '' said Emma , `` there is no disputing about taste. -- At least you admire her except her complexion . ''  And so she wrote a story and put all that in it ; she put her dear mother and her wise father in it , and all the little sisters , and besides the jolly times and the plays , she put the sad , hard times in , -- the work and worry and going without things .  Cleveland was a spacious , modern-built house , situated on a sloping lawn .  The distress of her sister too , particularly a favourite , was before her ; -- and as for their mother , when Mrs. Jennings considered that Marianne might probably be to HER what Charlotte was to herself , her sympathy in HER sufferings was very sincere .  He met with a clever young German artist at the Cape , and in compliance with a promise to my poor sister , sat to him , and was bringing it home for her ; and I have now the charge of getting it properly set for another !  So he crept , and crawled , and dragged himself over the ground to the garden of wild figs .  The estate at Delaford was never reckoned more than two thousand a year , and his brother left everything sadly involved .  `` Miss Smith ! -- message to Miss Smith ! -- What could she possibly mean ! ''  The evening of this day was very long , and melancholy , at Hartfield .  Ay , to be sure , he must be ordained in readiness ; and I am very glad to find things are so forward between you .  She spent whole hours at the pianoforte alternately singing and crying ; her voice often totally suspended by her tears .  But she was not wanted to speak .  `` Pretty well , my dear -- I hope -- pretty well. -- I do not know but that the place agrees with her tolerably . ''  I could have wished , however , as you know , that you had seen Mr. Wingfield before you left home . ''  So the rashkill cut the shtring , An ' hild the big bag over ; `` Now when I shake it in , '' says he , `` Do ye pit on the cover . ''  and I can account for it only in one way ; you are not yourself , or you could not speak either to me , or of Harriet , in such a manner .  The little Gingerbread Boy laughed and said , -- `` I have run away from a little old woman , `` And a little old man , `` And I can run away from you , I can ! ''  yes -- did not you know ? -- Well , well , never mind . ''  These valuable pictures of yours , Sir Walter , if you chose to leave them , would be perfectly safe .  The mother 's consternation was excessive ; but it could not surpass the alarm of the Miss Steeles , and every thing was done by all three , in so critical an emergency , which affection could suggest as likely to assuage the agonies of the little sufferer .  `` Your feelings may be the strongest , '' replied Anne , `` but the same spirit of analogy will authorise me to assert that ours are the most tender .  Had I done as I ought !  said Elinor , unable to be longer silent .  He drove through the park very fast , and they were soon out of sight ; and nothing more of them was seen till their return , which did not happen till after the return of all the rest .  Why do n't he , in such a case , sell his horses , let his house , turn off his servants , and make a thorough reform at once ?  `` You are right .  I dare say I shall catch it ; and my sore-throats , you know , are always worse than anybody 's . ''  His spirits had been greatly recovering lately as might be expected .  I wonder how she speaks of the Coles -- what she calls them !  The woman is not at all pretty : she wears thick , common shoes , a plain dress , with a little shawl , and a sun-bonnet ; she is stout and short , and her face is a square-chinned Irish face ; but her eyes look at you like your mother 's .  Then I can understand in a jiffy .  He had no pleasure at Norland ; he detested being in town ; but either to Norland or London , he must go .  Charles laughed again and said , `` Now Mary , you know very well how it really was .  There was always such a great connexion between the Dalrymples and ourselves .  Emma 's confusion , and the acknowledged intimacy , seemed to declare her affection engaged .  `` You know his hand , I dare say , a charming one it is ; but that is not written so well as usual. -- He was tired , I dare say , for he had just filled the sheet to me as full as possible . ''  He said much of his earnest desire of their living in the most sociable terms with his family , and pressed them so cordially to dine at Barton Park every day till they were better settled at home , that , though his entreaties were carried to a point of perseverance beyond civility , they could not give offence .  Anne had a great deal to hear of Mr Elliot .  no -- I hope I shall not be ridiculous about it .  Palmer ! ''  added Mrs Croft .  No time was to be lost in undeceiving her , in making her acquainted with the real truth , and in endeavouring to bring her to hear it talked of by others , without betraying that she felt any uneasiness for her sister , or any resentment against Edward .  What would Gottlieb have given to be able to comfort his mother !  Compressed into the very lowest vacant corner were these words -- '' I had not a spare moment on Tuesday , as you know , for Miss Woodhouse 's beautiful little friend .  `` The unkindness of your own relations has made you astonished to find friendship any where . ''  It is not every body that would have stood out in such a kind way as she did , and refuse to take Jane 's answer ; but she positively declared she would _not_ write any such denial yesterday , as Jane wished her ; she would wait -- and , sure enough , yesterday evening it was all settled that Jane should go .  A most suitable connection everybody must consider it , but I think it might be a very happy one . ''  My , but it bumped him well !  `` Yes , Marianne , but I would not go while Mrs. Smith was there , and with no other companion than Mr .  He walked off in more complete self-approbation than he left for her .  Among the rest there was one for Colonel Brandon ; -- he took it , looked at the direction , changed colour , and immediately left the room .  `` Yes ; all the advantages of sitting still when he ought to move , and of leading a life of mere idle pleasure , and fancying himself extremely expert in finding excuses for it .  `` These are the sights , Harriet , to do one good .  Men of family would not be very fond of connecting themselves with a girl of such obscurity -- and most prudent men would be afraid of the inconvenience and disgrace they might be involved in , when the mystery of her parentage came to be revealed .  He is highly esteemed by all the family at the park , and I never see him myself without taking pains to converse with him . ''  Had she followed Mr. Knightley 's known wishes , in paying that attention to Miss Fairfax , which was every way her due ; had she tried to know her better ; had she done her part towards intimacy ; had she endeavoured to find a friend there instead of in Harriet Smith ; she must , in all probability , have been spared from every pain which pressed on her now. -- Birth , abilities , and education , had been equally marking one as an associate for her , to be received with gratitude ; and the other -- what was she ? -- Supposing even that they had never become intimate friends ; that she had never been admitted into Miss Fairfax 's confidence on this important matter -- which was most probable -- still , in knowing her as she ought , and as she might , she must have been preserved from the abominable suspicions of an improper attachment to Mr. Dixon , which she had not only so foolishly fashioned and harboured herself , but had so unpardonably imparted ; an idea which she greatly feared had been made a subject of material distress to the delicacy of Jane 's feelings , by the levity or carelessness of Frank Churchill 's .  `` Poor child ! ''  When you are tired of eating strawberries in the garden , there shall be cold meat in the house . ''  Pardon me -- but you will be limited as to number -- only three at once . ''  CHAPTER 47  Not one of them had the power of removal , or of effecting any material change of society .  She deserves a better fate . ''  You will find Margaret so improved when you come back again !  She never had been so depressed .  She felt that he had every thing to elevate him which general attention and deference , and especially the attention of all the young women , could do .  The father Jackal bowed very low .  Mrs Harville , a degree less polished than her husband , seemed , however , to have the same good feelings ; and nothing could be more pleasant than their desire of considering the whole party as friends of their own , because the friends of Captain Wentworth , or more kindly hospitable than their entreaties for their all promising to dine with them .  Jane had come to Highbury professedly for three months ; the Campbells were gone to Ireland for three months ; but now the Campbells had promised their daughter to stay at least till Midsummer , and fresh invitations had arrived for her to join them there .  His little eyes twinkled with enjoyment , and he didn't mind at all if now and then he got leaves , and some green berries in his mouth with the big ripe berries .  Her spirits seemed overcome .  When she had said this , her robe slipped from the traveller 's hand and she was gone .  He did consent .  I advise every body who is going to build , to build a cottage .  `` My courtiers are much pleased now , '' said the prince to Herr Grupello ; `` they think the statue much improved by the changes you have made . ''  It was altogether very extraordinary ; flattering , but painful .  One or two meetings of this kind had taken place , without affording Elinor any chance of engaging Lucy in private , when Sir John called at the cottage one morning , to beg , in the name of charity , that they would all dine with Lady Middleton that day , as he was obliged to attend the club at Exeter , and she would otherwise be quite alone , except her mother and the two Miss Steeles .  I hope it does him some service with you . ''  Then may I beg you to speak a little more loudly , and make the matter quite clear ?  In the present instance , it was sickness and poverty together which she came to visit ; and after remaining there as long as she could give comfort or advice , she quitted the cottage with such an impression of the scene as made her say to Harriet , as they walked away ,  To look at her , nobody would think how delighted and happy she is to have secured such a situation .  `` My idea of him is , that he can adapt his conversation to the taste of every body , and has the power as well as the wish of being universally agreeable .  What had really passed between them was to this effect .  There was still time to reach the castle of fortune , but no more than enough ; so he mounted his new steed and rode on once more .  A LITTLE GIRL LOST Children of the future age , Reading this indignant page , Know that in a former time Love , sweet love , was thought a crime .  He could hardly contain himself .  Her pleasure in seeing him was like every other of her feelings , strong in itself , and strongly spoken .  It was driven by a servant in mourning .  It was a very fine November day , and the Miss Musgroves came through the little grounds , and stopped for no other purpose than to say , that they were going to take a long walk , and therefore concluded Mary could not like to go with them ; and when Mary immediately replied , with some jealousy at not being supposed a good walker , `` Oh , yes , I should like to join you very much , I am very fond of a long walk ; '' Anne felt persuaded , by the looks of the two girls , that it was precisely what they did not wish , and admired again the sort of necessity which the family habits seemed to produce , of everything being to be communicated , and everything being to be done together , however undesired and inconvenient .  There will be a great many people talking at once .  His mother pushed him about in her sleep , until her slumber became too sound ; then she stopped .  The Coles expressed themselves so properly -- there was so much real attention in the manner of it -- so much consideration for her father .  May was better for every thing than February .  Conversation however was not wanted , for Sir John was very chatty , and Lady Middleton had taken the wise precaution of bringing with her their eldest child , a fine little boy about six years old , by which means there was one subject always to be recurred to by the ladies in case of extremity , for they had to enquire his name and age , admire his beauty , and ask him questions which his mother answered for him , while he hung about her and held down his head , to the great surprise of her ladyship , who wondered at his being so shy before company , as he could make noise enough at home .  Such an end of the doleful disappointment of five weeks back !  You had better come earlier another time , because we are generally out by one .  Their attention and wit were drawn off to his more fortunate rival ; and the raillery which the other had incurred before any partiality arose , was removed when his feelings began really to call for the ridicule so justly annexed to sensibility .  As the door opened she was heard ,  She had never been supplanted .  We both abhor suspense .  She sat in an agony of impatience which affected every feature .  `` Elliot ! ''  I am sick of it .  The boy had , with the additional softening claim of a lingering illness of his mother 's , been the means of a sort of reconciliation ; and Mr. and Mrs. Churchill , having no children of their own , nor any other young creature of equal kindred to care for , offered to take the whole charge of the little Frank soon after her decease .  It was evident that the gentleman , ( completely a gentleman in manner ) admired her exceedingly .  One would imagine you had never heard my father speak of her personal misfortunes , though I know you must fifty times .  said Margery .  `` Ah ! ''  But to appear happy when I am so miserable -- Oh !  Impatient in this situation to be doing something that might lead to her sister 's relief , Elinor resolved to write the next morning to her mother , and hoped by awakening her fears for the health of Marianne , to procure those inquiries which had been so long delayed ; and she was still more eagerly bent on this measure by perceiving after breakfast on the morrow , that Marianne was again writing to Willoughby , for she could not suppose it to be to any other person .  Oh !  repeated Edward -- '' but why must you have hunters ?  My brother and sister will be enchanted with this place .  `` It is perfectly right and just , '' said the Tiger , `` and I shall eat you up . ''  When David came before Saul , he said to the king , `` Let no man 's heart fail because of him ; thy servant will go and fight with this Philistine . ''  Marianne coloured , and replied very hastily , `` Where , pray ? ''  Mrs. Jennings sat on Elinor 's right hand ; and they had not been long seated , before she leant behind her and Willoughby , and said to Marianne , loud enough for them both to hear , `` I have found you out in spite of all your tricks .  exclaimed Mr. Knightley loudly and warmly ; and with calmer asperity , added , a few moments afterwards , `` No , he is not her equal indeed , for he is as much her superior in sense as in situation .  We had great amusement with those letters one morning .  `` Did he appear a sensible young man ; a young man of information ? ''  Yes , indeed , it might have been worse .  It was enough for her that he appeared to be amiable , that he loved her daughter , and that Elinor returned the partiality .  Mrs Smith had been carried away from her first direction , and Anne had forgotten , in the interest of her own family concerns , how much had been originally implied against him ; but her attention was now called to the explanation of those first hints , and she listened to a recital which , if it did not perfectly justify the unqualified bitterness of Mrs Smith , proved him to have been very unfeeling in his conduct towards her ; very deficient both in justice and compassion .  And , as she left me , she turned and said , 'God will remember . '  [ Stories to Tell to Children by Sara Cone Bryant 1918 ] TWO LITTLE RIDDLES IN RHYME There 's a garden that I ken , Full of little gentlemen ; Little caps of blue they wear , And green ribbons , very fair .  But hush , hush ! ''  Nay , the longer they were together the more doubtful seemed the nature of his regard ; and sometimes , for a few painful minutes , she believed it to be no more than friendship .  There was too much domestic happiness in his brother 's house ; woman wore too amiable a form in it ; Isabella was too much like Emma -- differing only in those striking inferiorities , which always brought the other in brilliancy before him , for much to have been done , even had his time been longer. -- He had stayed on , however , vigorously , day after day -- till this very morning 's post had conveyed the history of Jane Fairfax. -- Then , with the gladness which must be felt , nay , which he did not scruple to feel , having never believed Frank Churchill to be at all deserving Emma , was there so much fond solicitude , so much keen anxiety for her , that he could stay no longer .  I have a very strong notion that it comes from him .  But Mary did not give into it very graciously , whether from not considering Captain Benwick entitled by birth and situation to be in love with an Elliot , or from not wanting to believe Anne a greater attraction to Uppercross than herself , must be left to be guessed .  I do not mean to say , however , that you might not have made discoveries . ''  Elinor lost no time in bringing her business forward , was on the point of concluding it , when another gentleman presented himself at her side .  `` Oh !  Let them be sent to Donwell .  King David lived a long time , and made his people famous for victory and happiness ; he had many troubles and many wars , but he always trusted that God would help him , and he never deserted his own people in any hard place .  `` I will have you BOTH go , '' said Mrs. Dashwood ; `` these objections are nonsensical .  `` Dear me , '' she said , `` this chicken is no good ; it is burned to a cinder . ''  In music she had been always used to feel alone in the world ; and Mr and Mrs Musgrove 's fond partiality for their own daughters ' performance , and total indifference to any other person 's , gave her much more pleasure for their sakes , than mortification for her own .  There were moments in abundance , when , if not by the absence of her mother and sisters , at least by the nature of their employments , conversation was forbidden among them , and every effect of solitude was produced .  That is what she writes about .  At this time of the year , and after such a series of rain , we shall certainly have very little more of it .  These were claims which he did not learn to overlook , though some years passed away from the death of poor Fairfax , before his own return to England put any thing in his power .  Do not think yourself excused by any weakness , any natural defect of understanding on her side , in the wanton cruelty so evident on yours .  If I had but her memory !  `` _He_ is undoubtedly very much in love -- every thing denotes it -- very much in love indeed ! -- and when he comes again , if his affection continue , I must be on my guard not to encourage it. -- It would be most inexcusable to do otherwise , as my own mind is quite made up .  `` Are you going as high as Belmont ?  Her face was crimsoned over , and she exclaimed , in a voice of the greatest emotion , `` Good God !  They would soon , she supposed , be settled at Delaford. -- Delaford , -- that place in which so much conspired to give her an interest ; which she wished to be acquainted with , and yet desired to avoid .  Colonel Wallis declined sitting down again , and Mr Elliot was invited by Elizabeth and Miss Carteret , in a manner not to be refused , to sit between them ; and by some other removals , and a little scheming of her own , Anne was enabled to place herself much nearer the end of the bench than she had been before , much more within reach of a passer-by .  There probably _was_ something more to conceal than her own preference ; Mr. Dixon , perhaps , had been very near changing one friend for the other , or been fixed only to Miss Campbell , for the sake of the future twelve thousand pounds .  One does not love a place the less for having suffered in it , unless it has been all suffering , nothing but suffering , which was by no means the case at Lyme .  `` No , ma'am .  Her wish of shewing you attention could not be doubted , and his being a disengaged and social man makes it all easy .  Time , she knew , must be allowed for this being thoroughly done ; and she could suppose herself but an indifferent judge of such matters in general , and very inadequate to sympathise in an attachment to Mr. Elton in particular ; but it seemed to her reasonable that at Harriet 's age , and with the entire extinction of all hope , such a progress might be made towards a state of composure by the time of Mr. Elton 's return , as to allow them all to meet again in the common routine of acquaintance , without any danger of betraying sentiments or increasing them .  He has loved her , my Elinor , ever since the first moment of seeing her . ''  But whatever might be the particulars of their separation , her sister 's affliction was indubitable ; and she thought with the tenderest compassion of that violent sorrow which Marianne was in all probability not merely giving way to as a relief , but feeding and encouraging as a duty .  Freckles do not disgust me so very much as they do him .  Captain Harville had taken his present house for half a year ; his taste , and his health , and his fortune , all directing him to a residence inexpensive , and by the sea ; and the grandeur of the country , and the retirement of Lyme in the winter , appeared exactly adapted to Captain Benwick 's state of mind .  or a shark ?  The hardness of the pavement for her feet , made him less willing upon the present occasion ; he did it , however .  CHAPTER 27  Mrs. Jennings , who had been inclined from the first to think Marianne 's complaint more serious than Elinor , now looked very grave on Mr. Harris 's report , and confirming Charlotte 's fears and caution , urged the necessity of her immediate removal with her infant ; and Mr. Palmer , though treating their apprehensions as idle , found the anxiety and importunity of his wife too great to be withstood .  It may be very inconvenient some years to spare a hundred , or even fifty pounds from our own expenses . ''  `` Do not you think , Miss Woodhouse , our saucy little friend here is charmingly recovered ? -- Do not you think her cure does Perry the highest credit ? -- ( here was a side-glance of great meaning at Jane . )  You see when it slipped off his head , the handle was still around his neck , and there he was running away with a pail hanging from his neck !  She had lately lost sight even of her father and sister and Bath .  Now , pray do , -- and come while the Westons are with us .  `` Take me with you !  as fast as you can !  Arthur ! -- How do you do ?  She turned through the same gate , but could not see them .  Miss Bates , deceived by the mock ceremony of her manner , did not immediately catch her meaning ; but , when it burst on her , it could not anger , though a slight blush shewed that it could pain her .  Anne wondered whether it ever occurred to him now , to question the justness of his own previous opinion as to the universal felicity and advantage of firmness of character ; and whether it might not strike him that , like all other qualities of the mind , it should have its proportions and limits .  Not to wait upon a bride is very remiss .  But now as he clung to a little branch near the top of a tall pine-tree in the Green Forest and looked down at the big sharp teeth of Buster Bear drawing nearer and nearer , and listened to the deep , angry growls that made his hair stand on end , Chatterer was too frightened to think .  There was no injury but to the head .  She disliked Bath , and did not think it agreed with her ; and Bath was to be her home .  The delightful assurance of her total indifference towards Frank Churchill , of her having a heart completely disengaged from him , had given birth to the hope , that , in time , he might gain her affection himself ; -- but it had been no present hope -- he had only , in the momentary conquest of eagerness over judgment , aspired to be told that she did not forbid his attempt to attach her. -- The superior hopes which gradually opened were so much the more enchanting. -- The affection , which he had been asking to be allowed to create , if he could , was already his ! -- Within half an hour , he had passed from a thoroughly distressed state of mind , to something so like perfect happiness , that it could bear no other name .  A ready-furnished house in a favourite spot was engaged , and much benefit expected from the change .  `` Do you know Mr. Robert Ferrars ? ''  `` Well , well ; whatever Colonel Brandon may be , Edward is a very lucky man. -- You will not mention the matter to Fanny , however , for though I have broke it to her , and she bears it vastly well , -- she will not like to hear it much talked of . ''  She begged him to think again on the subject .  Early the next morning , a man came driving up to the cottage with two strong white horses ; in his wagon was a plough .  But the industrious man was received by the Fairy of Fortune , and made happy in the castle as long as he wanted to stay .  What I felt on hearing that your sister was dying -- and dying too , believing me the greatest villain upon earth , scorning , hating me in her latest moments -- for how could I tell what horrid projects might not have been imputed ?  Nobody could do it , but that good fellow '' ( pointing to Captain Wentworth . )  `` You will not find either , between Donwell and Highbury .  `` Our little friend Harriet Smith , however , is just such another pretty kind of young person .  `` MY DEAR MADAM ,  I considered your marrying him as certain , though he might not yet have made the offer , and I could no more speak the truth of him , than if he had been your husband .  You see , Farmer Brown 's boy was just beginning to understand something that Peter Rabbit and the other little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest learned almost as soon as they learned to walk , -- that if you do n't want to be seen , you must n't be heard .  `` But that was only the effect of the suddenness of your alarm -- of the shock .  I should never be out if they were all Sophys , or something of that sort .  `` Zelia has broken your spell , '' she said to the prince , `` as I meant she should , when you were worthy of her love . ''  Mamma , how shall we do without her ? ''  She had promised to be with the Musgroves from breakfast to dinner .  `` There certainly are circumstances , '' said Willoughby , `` which might greatly endear it to me ; but this place will always have one claim of my affection , which no other can possibly share . ''  cried Mr. Elton , `` what can be the meaning of this ? -- Miss Smith ! -- I never thought of Miss Smith in the whole course of my existence -- never paid her any attentions , but as your friend : never cared whether she were dead or alive , but as your friend .  _So_ kind of you to let me go ! ''  She was previously disposed , I believe , to doubt the morality of my conduct in general , and was moreover discontented with the very little attention , the very little portion of my time that I had bestowed on her , in my present visit .  His good-nature , his humanity , as I tell you , would be quite enough to account for the horses .  `` Yes , Sir , a Mr Elliot , a gentleman of large fortune , came in last night from Sidmouth .  `` I will not oppose such kind politeness ; but I should be sorry to be examined by a real proficient . ''  Do not you pity me ? ''  In a worldly view , he had nothing to gain by being on terms with Sir Walter ; nothing to risk by a state of variance .  said the lazy , man , and he laughed ; `` of course , if we had a horse there would be some chance , but _walk_ all that way ?  I was glad you made her play so much , for having no instrument at her grandmother 's , it must have been a real indulgence . ''  As the wailing harmony smote upon the air , the women of the Fomorians bowed their heads and wept bitterly , the strong men turned their faces aside , and the little children sobbed .  Young ladies should take care of themselves. -- Young ladies are delicate plants .  Bright and early the next morning , he rose and went to his work bench .  Mr. Weston is such a good-humoured , pleasant , excellent man , that he thoroughly deserves a good wife ; -- and you would not have had Miss Taylor live with us for ever , and bear all my odd humours , when she might have a house of her own ? ''  `` I believe it is very true , my dear , indeed , '' said Mr. Woodhouse , with a sigh .  But they loved Elsa so much that they did not like her to do any work ; very foolishly , they let her play all the time .  The child of good fortune !  The little Country Mouse looked at the trap , and he looked at the cheese , and he looked at the little City Mouse .  XVI CHATTERER THE RED SQUIRREL JUMPS FOR HIS LIFE It is n't very often that Chatterer the Red Squirrel knows fear .  Isabella sent quite as good an account of her visitor as could be expected ; on her first arrival she had thought her out of spirits , which appeared perfectly natural , as there was a dentist to be consulted ; but , since that business had been over , she did not appear to find Harriet different from what she had known her before. -- Isabella , to be sure , was no very quick observer ; yet if Harriet had not been equal to playing with the children , it would not have escaped her .  a very agreeable young man to be sure ; I know him very well . ''  `` If I was n't afraid of being seen , I 'd go up to the Old Pasture this very minute .  `` I have a notion , '' said Sir John , `` that Miss Marianne would not object to such a scheme , if her elder sister would come into it .  In one moment her imagination placed before her a letter from Willoughby , full of tenderness and contrition , explanatory of all that had passed , satisfactory , convincing ; and instantly followed by Willoughby himself , rushing eagerly into the room to inforce , at her feet , by the eloquence of his eyes , the assurances of his letter .  And he put them off .  `` No , you ca n't come in , '' said the little Tulip .  `` Ah !  Oh !  To be sure , I may just as well go as not , for I am of no use at home -- am I ?  Your father might have asked us to dinner , I think , if he had wanted to see us .  Colonel Brandon was now as happy , as all those who best loved him , believed he deserved to be ; -- in Marianne he was consoled for every past affliction ; -- her regard and her society restored his mind to animation , and his spirits to cheerfulness ; and that Marianne found her own happiness in forming his , was equally the persuasion and delight of each observing friend .  How her temper and understanding might bear the investigation of his present keener time of life was another concern and rather a fearful one .  She would not speak to Anne with half the certainty she felt on the subject , she would venture on little more than hints of what might be hereafter , of a possible attachment on his side , of the desirableness of the alliance , supposing such attachment to be real and returned .  The mistake had been slight .  We were speaking the other day , you know , of his being so warm an admirer of her performance . ''  He heard Chatterer the Red Squirrel scolding as fast as he could make his tongue go and working himself into a terrible rage .  Where is she ? -- Oh !  `` As vile a spot as I ever saw in my life , '' said Mr. Palmer .  And I declare if she is not gone away without finishing her wine !  I would not bind myself to allow them any thing yearly .  I am sure she will be married to Mr. Willoughby very soon . ''  INFANT JOY `` I have no name ; I am but two days old . ''  There before him were more berries than he had ever seen together at one time in all his life , and all he had to do was to eat and eat and eat .  Every thing was to take its natural course , however , neither impelled nor assisted .  I need not ask after her .  Your time has been properly and delicately spent , if you have been endeavouring for the last four years to bring about this marriage .  `` Then come home , my children , the sun is gone down , And the dews of night arise ; Come , come , leave off play , and let us away , Till the morning appears in the skies . ''  Many circumstances assisted the temptation .  The appearance of the latter could not be more than the surprise of the moment .  He thanked her , observing , `` How lucky that we should arrive at the same moment !  You will soon have exhausted each favourite topic .  Charles `` had never seen a pleasanter man in his life ; and from what he had once heard Captain Wentworth himself say , was very sure that he had not made less than twenty thousand pounds by the war .  This distinction appeared to increase , and there was one speech of Louisa 's which struck her .  Mrs. Elton , very willing to suppose a particular compliment intended her by such a hope , smiled most graciously .  It suits us very well .  So obliged to you for the carriage last night .  Now nothing !  She stopt .  `` That Mr. Elton should really be in love with me , -- me , of all people , who did not know him , to speak to him , at Michaelmas !  But unwelcome as such a task must be , it was necessary to be done , and Elinor therefore hastened to perform it .  said Emma , recovering from her state of shame and feeling divided between wonder and amusement .  At the same time , I will not positively answer for my having never dropt a hint , because I know I do sometimes pop out a thing before I am aware .  `` I can not make a question , or listen to a question about that .  Of course , he must be sorry to lose her -- they must be all sorry .  Latterly , however -- for some time , indeed -- I have had no idea of their meaning any thing. -- I thought them a habit , a trick , nothing that called for seriousness on my side .  There was a little shivering bird !  Between these two , she could want no possible attendance by day or night .  Willoughby. -- Remember that you are married .  `` You have heard of a certain Frank Churchill , I presume , '' he continued -- `` and know him to be my son , though he does not bear my name . ''  `` No , sir , she is not one-and-thirty ; but I do not think I can put off my engagement , because it is the only evening for some time which will at once suit her and myself .  These people left us some splendid stories about their kings , their fights , and their beautiful women ; but it all happened such a long time ago that the stories are mixtures of things that really happened and what people said about them , and we do n't know just which is which .  `` Oh !  The event acquitted her of all the fancifulness , and all the selfishness of imaginary complaints .  `` I will , then , '' said the little Red Hen .  The steadiness of his manner , and the intelligence of his eye as he spoke , convincing Elinor , that whatever other unpardonable folly might bring him to Cleveland , he was not brought there by intoxication , she said , after a moment 's recollection ,  It was easy to decide that she was still too young ; and Jane remained with them , sharing , as another daughter , in all the rational pleasures of an elegant society , and a judicious mixture of home and amusement , with only the drawback of the future , the sobering suggestions of her own good understanding to remind her that all this might soon be over .  Lucky fellow to get anything so soon , with no more interest than his . ''  Had you seen his look , his manner , had you heard his voice at that moment !  Whatever be his pursuits , his eagerness in them should know no moderation , and leave him no sense of fatigue . ''  There was certainly no harm in his travelling sixteen miles twice over on such an errand ; but there was an air of foppery and nonsense in it which she could not approve .  One natural consequence of the evil she had involved herself in , '' she said , `` was that of making her _unreasonable_ .  But no one said anything , and Blacky went on .  It was but a passing emotion however with Mrs Smith ; she shook it off , and soon added in a different tone --  So when he started to look for berries , he made up his mind that he would eat what he could in a great hurry and get back to the Green Forest before Farmer Brown 's boy was more than out of bed .  `` I told you yesterday , '' cried Mr. Weston with exultation , `` I told you all that he would be here before the time named .  But Mrs. Dashwood could find explanations whenever she wanted them , which at least satisfied herself .  She was full of jokes and laughter , and before dinner was over had said many witty things on the subject of lovers and husbands ; hoped they had not left their hearts behind them in Sussex , and pretended to see them blush whether they did or not .  There are just two things that make hair rise -- anger and fear .  But you know they were your own words , that _more_ wonderful things had happened , matches of _greater_ disparity had taken place than between Mr. Frank Churchill and me ; and , therefore , it seems as if such a thing even as this , may have occurred before -- and if I should be so fortunate , beyond expression , as to -- if Mr. Knightley should really -- if _he_ does not mind the disparity , I hope , dear Miss Woodhouse , you will not set yourself against it , and try to put difficulties in the way .  And , upon my word , I do not think Mr. Knightley would be much disturbed by Miss Bates .  My friend Lord Courtland came to me the other day on purpose to ask my advice , and laid before me three different plans of Bonomi 's .  Absence might have weakened his regard , and convenience might have determined him to overcome it , but that such a regard had formerly existed she could not bring herself to doubt .  Such talent as hers must not be suffered to remain unknown. -- I dare say you have heard those charming lines of the poet ,  You can not mean that he has even proposed to her again -- yet .  `` Ever since the day -- about four years ago -- that Miss Taylor and I met with him in Broadway Lane , when , because it began to drizzle , he darted away with so much gallantry , and borrowed two umbrellas for us from Farmer Mitchell 's , I made up my mind on the subject .  Dullness is as much produced within doors as without , by rain .  Jane had spent an evening at Hartfield with her grandmother and aunt , and every thing was relapsing much into its usual state .  It stood the record of many sensations of pain , once severe , but now softened ; and of some instances of relenting feeling , some breathings of friendship and reconciliation , which could never be looked for again , and which could never cease to be dear .  Emma had not had time even to think of Mr. Elton , and she was so completely surprized that she could not avoid a little start , and a little blush , at the sound .  Fifty thousand pounds !  She wanted me to nurse my cold by staying at home to-day , and yet will not promise to avoid the danger of catching an ulcerated sore throat herself .  said the Emperor .  I do assure you that nothing would surprise me more than to hear of their being going to be married . ''  There 's little Tom Dacre , who cried when his head , That curled like a lamb 's back , was shaved ; so I said , `` Hush , Tom !  All the surprise and suspense , and every other painful part of the morning dissipated by this conversation , she re-entered the house so happy as to be obliged to find an alloy in some momentary apprehensions of its being impossible to last .  Her answers to the kindness and the remarks of her companions were at first unconsciously given .  `` Oh !  It seems funny but he actually is afraid of them .  A TRUE STORY ABOUT A GIRL Once there were four little girls who lived in a big , bare house , in the country .  Now , as her objection was nothing but her very great dislike of Mrs. Elton , of which Mr. Weston must already be perfectly aware , it was not worth bringing forward again : -- it could not be done without a reproof to him , which would be giving pain to his wife ; and she found herself therefore obliged to consent to an arrangement which she would have done a great deal to avoid ; an arrangement which would probably expose her even to the degradation of being said to be of Mrs. Elton 's party !  said he .  -- but with many , many thanks -- `there was no occasion to trouble us , for Mr. Knightley 's carriage had brought , and was to take them home again . '  It was like a terrible dream ; he could not believe it true , he could not understand what had happened to him .  She was silent. -- Elinor 's security sunk ; but her self-command did not sink with it .  The evening was quiet and conversable , as Mr. Woodhouse declined cards entirely for the sake of comfortable talk with his dear Isabella , and the little party made two natural divisions ; on one side he and his daughter ; on the other the two Mr. Knightleys ; their subjects totally distinct , or very rarely mixing -- and Emma only occasionally joining in one or the other .  Not heard of you ! -- I believe Mrs. Weston 's letters lately have been full of very little else than Mrs .  `` I am almost certain that the meeting at the Crown is not till to-morrow. -- Mr .  And your mother has brought on herself a most appropriate punishment .  The pleasure is not enhanced , and the inconvenience is often considerable .  I never was more astonished in my life . ''  You do us a great deal of honour to-day , I am sure .  One by one , the lights went out , in the castle windows .  What say you to Mr. Weston and Mr. Elton ?  It was known that they were a little acquainted ; but not a syllable of real information could Emma procure as to what he truly was .  And standing on the altar high , `` Lo , what a fiend is here !  But it shows you the man .  said he , `` and who is Miss Anne Elliot to be visiting in Westgate Buildings ?  It is my daily errand .  As Mrs. Jennings could talk on no other subject , Elinor soon saw the necessity of preparing Marianne for its discussion .  I had not thought of Mrs. Dixon .  My cousins say they are sure I have made a conquest ; but for my part I declare I never think about him from one hour 's end to another .  His son was sent for as soon as his danger was known , and to him Mr. Dashwood recommended , with all the strength and urgency which illness could command , the interest of his mother-in-law and sisters .  `` I honour his sincerity .  It was not until several years later that , in rereading Andersen for other purposes , I came upon the real story of the Little Fir Tree , and read it for myself .  At last , a large Beetle , during his rambles , chanced to espy the Diamond , and he also recognised him to be some one of great rank and importance .  Facts or opinions which are to pass through the hands of so many , to be misconceived by folly in one , and ignorance in another , can hardly have much truth left . ''  said he , `I do think I can fasten the rivet ; I like a job of this kind excessively . '  II .  Mrs Charles quite swears by her , I know ; but I just give you this hint , that you may be upon the watch ; because , if you see anything amiss , you need not be afraid of mentioning it . ''  And he wanted to fly up into the sky .  Lady Russell let this pass , and only said in rejoinder , `` I own that to be able to regard you as the future mistress of Kellynch , the future Lady Elliot , to look forward and see you occupying your dear mother 's place , succeeding to all her rights , and all her popularity , as well as to all her virtues , would be the highest possible gratification to me .  repeated Lucy .  are you there ? -- But you are miserably behindhand .  And when he woke next morning , he believed it was a dream , and that he was king again .  `` Yes , very true .  `` Oh !  `` No .  I was young once , but I never was very handsome -- worse luck for me .  Do not you begin to feel that now ?  His regret increased as he listened .  A letter from his friend , Captain Harville , having found him out at last , had brought intelligence of Captain Harville 's being settled with his family at Lyme for the winter ; of their being therefore , quite unknowingly , within twenty miles of each other .  thinks she to herself , 'they are all so fond of Lucy , to be sure they will make no difficulty about it ; ' and so , away she went to your sister , who was sitting all alone at her carpet-work , little suspecting what was to come -- for she had just been saying to your brother , only five minutes before , that she thought to make a match between Edward and some Lord 's daughter or other , I forget who .  said John Knightley .  `` You would not be six hours later , '' said Willoughby , `` if you were to defer your journey till our return . ''  We admired it so much , that I have ventured to write it into Miss Smith 's collection .  Mrs. Weston , you would be quite laid up ; do not let them talk of such a wild thing .  I never passed within view of it without admiring its situation , and grieving that no one should live in it .  Emma 's project of forgetting Mr. Elton for a while made her rather sorry to find , when they had all taken their places , that he was close to her .  `` Three-and-twenty ! -- is he indeed ? -- Well , I could not have thought it -- and he was but two years old when he lost his poor mother !  Had he been even old , ugly , and vulgar , the gratitude and kindness of Mrs. Dashwood would have been secured by any act of attention to her child ; but the influence of youth , beauty , and elegance , gave an interest to the action which came home to her feelings .  Elton ? ''  `` Oh !  Then some pretty ladies , with white caps on their heads and white aprons over their blue dresses , came bringing little parcels .  And in all probability you will see your brother , and whatever may be his faults , or the faults of his wife , when I consider whose son he is , I can not bear to have you so wholly estranged from each other . ''  `` Take a little time , consider , do not commit yourself . ''  What is her age ?  This lady was one of my nearest relations , an orphan from her infancy , and under the guardianship of my father .  So , though he did n't let on that it was so , Grandfather Frog really was delighted when he heard how Buster Bear had been too smart for Little Joe Otter .  `` Can you come to Randalls at any time this morning ? -- Do , if it be possible .  It was so long since Emma had been at the Abbey , that as soon as she was satisfied of her father 's comfort , she was glad to leave him , and look around her ; eager to refresh and correct her memory with more particular observation , more exact understanding of a house and grounds which must ever be so interesting to her and all her family .  `` She is not entirely without it , I think . ''  A little while ago , he was at Weymouth .  There are several odd-looking men walking about here , who , I am told , are sailors .  I can not be so sanguine as Mr. Weston .  If he had had his terrible gun with him , it might have been different .  Is not it a good exchange ? -- You consent -- I hope you consent ? ''  When the farmer was old , and felt that his time had come to die , he called the three sons to him and said , `` My sons , there is a pot of gold hidden in the olive orchard .  He may have as strong a sense of what would be right , as you can have , without being so equal , under particular circumstances , to act up to it . ''  You look as if you would not do such a thing again . ''  I am sure you will be glad to hear , as likewise dear Mrs. Jennings , I spent two happy hours with him yesterday afternoon , he would not hear of our parting , though earnestly did I , as I thought my duty required , urge him to it for prudence sake , and would have parted for ever on the spot , would he consent to it ; but he said it should never be , he did not regard his mother 's anger , while he could have my affections ; our prospects are not very bright , to be sure , but we must wait , and hope for the best ; he will be ordained shortly ; and should it ever be in your power to recommend him to any body that has a living to bestow , am very sure you will not forget us , and dear Mrs. Jennings too , trust she will speak a good word for us to Sir John , or Mr. Palmer , or any friend that may be able to assist us. -- Poor Anne was much to blame for what she did , but she did it for the best , so I say nothing ; hope Mrs. Jennings wo n't think it too much trouble to give us a call , should she come this way any morning , 'twould be a great kindness , and my cousins would be proud to know her. -- My paper reminds me to conclude ; and begging to be most gratefully and respectfully remembered to her , and to Sir John , and Lady Middleton , and the dear children , when you chance to see them , and love to Miss Marianne ,  They came : the master of the house was not at home , but the two sisters were together ; and as it chanced that Mrs Croft fell to the share of Anne , while the Admiral sat by Mary , and made himself very agreeable by his good-humoured notice of her little boys , she was well able to watch for a likeness , and if it failed her in the features , to catch it in the voice , or in the turn of sentiment and expression .  Her mind was in a state of flutter and wonder , which made it impossible for her to be collected .  Buster gave a little sigh of pure happiness .  She could not wait to look at her garden .  What in the world makes you want to do such a crazy thing ?  All the way home through the Green Forest , Farmer Brown 's boy kept looking behind him , and he did n't draw a long breath until he reached the edge of the Green Forest .  You must take care of yourself , Mrs .  It regarded a supper-room .  Anne entered it with a sinking heart , anticipating an imprisonment of many months , and anxiously saying to herself , `` Oh !  That is , I _presume_ it to be so on her side , and I can _answer_ for its being so on his .  This was agreed upon between the two friends as the only thing to be done ; and Colonel Wallis was to assist in every way that he could .  Only half an hour before her friend called for her at Mrs. Goddard 's , her evil stars had led her to the very spot where , at that moment , a trunk , directed to _The_ _Rev._ _Philip_ _Elton_ , _White-Hart_ , _Bath_ , was to be seen under the operation of being lifted into the butcher 's cart , which was to convey it to where the coaches past ; and every thing in this world , excepting that trunk and the direction , was consequently a blank .  But had I been informed of it a few hours earlier -- I think it is most probable -- that something might have been hit on .  CHAPTER XII  From our relative situation , those attentions were her due , and were felt to be so. -- Whether Miss Woodhouse began really to understand me before the expiration of that fortnight , I can not say ; -- when I called to take leave of her , I remember that I was within a moment of confessing the truth , and I then fancied she was not without suspicion ; but I have no doubt of her having since detected me , at least in some degree. -- She may not have surmised the whole , but her quickness must have penetrated a part .  A dinner there must be .  Lord bless me !  I really never could think well of any body who proposed such a thing to any body else . ''  Miss Woodhouse looks as if she did not want me .  The little footpaths were marked out by Father Brown 's feet ; Margery and her mother laughed well at his actions , for it looked like some kind of dance .  This is feeling your way .  Why should you be less fortunate than your mother ?  that 's all .  Am I reserved , Marianne ? ''  `` Very true , very true , indeed .  Anne , remembering the preconcerted visits , at all hours , of Mr Elliot , would have expected him , but for his known engagement seven miles off .  They were permitted to go alone ; and with a cordial nod from one , and a graceful bow from the other , the two gentlemen took leave .  And mutual fear brings Peace , Till the selfish loves increase Then Cruelty knits a snare , And spreads his baits with care .  White as an angel is the English child , But I am black , as if bereaved of light .  It must be terrible for you to hear it talked of ; and as for your sister , I am sure I would not mention a word about it to her for the world .  I should not wonder if it were to bring on the declaration .  `` Something that would do ! ''  Not a stone must be added to its walls , not an inch to its size , if my feelings are regarded . ''  But I do flatter myself , my dear Jane , that my influence is not entirely worn out .  True , true , you are acquainted with Miss Fairfax ; I remember you knew her at Weymouth , and a fine girl she is .  Elinor was obliged to turn from her , in the middle of her story , to receive the rest of the party ; Lady Middleton introduced the two strangers ; Mrs. Dashwood and Margaret came down stairs at the same time , and they all sat down to look at one another , while Mrs. Jennings continued her story as she walked through the passage into the parlour , attended by Sir John .  `` Yes , one , '' the clown said , `` but it was so small , it is not worth telling ; my life has been worthless . ''  Emma wondered on what , of all the medley , she would fix .  She had no longer any inclination to talk to him .  But on the other hand , as Emma wants to see her better informed , it will be an inducement to her to read more herself .  I see thee like an infant wrapped in the Lillys leaf ; Ah weep not little voice , thou can'st not speak , but thou can'st weep : Is this a Worm ?  `` I am to hear from him soon , '' continued Mrs. Weston .  Your wishes are all moderate . ''  Mrs. Weston told me you were here. -- Oh !  But it is so uncertain , when I may have it in my power to return , that I dare not engage for it at all . ''  The anxious cares , the incessant attentions of Mrs. Weston , were not thrown away .  Emma was in the humour to value simplicity and modesty to the utmost ; and all that was amiable , all that ought to be attaching , seemed on Harriet 's side , not her own .  What his mother really is we can not know ; but , from Fanny 's occasional mention of her conduct and opinions , we have never been disposed to think her amiable ; and I am very much mistaken if Edward is not himself aware that there would be many difficulties in his way , if he were to wish to marry a woman who had not either a great fortune or high rank . ''  The forgiveness , at first , indeed , as was reasonable , comprehended only Robert ; and Lucy , who had owed his mother no duty and therefore could have transgressed none , still remained some weeks longer unpardoned .  `` You are acquainted with Miss Jane Fairfax , sir , are you ? ''  And then he told his son to go out to-night and ask all the neighbours to come and reap the corn to-morrow . ''  Her father never went beyond the shrubbery , where two divisions of the ground sufficed him for his long walk , or his short , as the year varied ; and since Mrs. Weston 's marriage her exercise had been too much confined .  `` Ah !  Mrs. Cole had many to agree with her ; every body who spoke on the subject was equally convinced that it must come from Colonel Campbell , and equally rejoiced that such a present had been made ; and there were enough ready to speak to allow Emma to think her own way , and still listen to Mrs. Cole .  My heart bled for you , as I talked of happiness ; and yet he is sensible , he is agreeable , and with such a woman as you , it was not absolutely hopeless .  What the hammer ?  THE STORY OF EPAMINONDAS AND HIS AUNTIE Epaminondas used to go to see his Auntie 'most every day , and she nearly always gave him something to take home to his Mammy .  Within a few days after this meeting , the newspapers announced to the world , that the lady of Thomas Palmer , Esq .  `` What a pity it is , Elinor , '' said Marianne , `` that Edward should have no taste for drawing . ''  I can not pretend to remember it , but it was something very fine -- I overheard him telling Henrietta all about it ; and then `Miss Elliot ' was spoken of in the highest terms !  Her friend was not in better spirits than herself .  In this style she ran on ; never thoroughly stopped by any thing till Mr. Woodhouse came into the room ; her vanity had then a change of object , and Emma heard her saying in the same half-whisper to Jane ,  She had never been quite well since the time of their daughter 's marriage ; and till she should have completely recovered her usual strength , they must forbid her engaging in duties , which , so far from being compatible with a weakened frame and varying spirits , seemed , under the most favourable circumstances , to require something more than human perfection of body and mind to be discharged with tolerable comfort .  `` Poor thing , '' he thought , `` she is even more hungry than I '' ; and he ran up and dropped the crust at her feet .  Mrs. Churchill had been recommended to the medical skill of an eminent person there , and had otherwise a fancy for the place .  It was a more pressing concern to shew attention to Jane Fairfax , whose prospects were closing , while Harriet 's opened , and whose engagements now allowed of no delay in any one at Highbury , who wished to shew her kindness -- and with Emma it was grown into a first wish .  But I would not alarm you too much .  cried Emma , `` I know there is not a better creature in the world : but you must allow , that what is good and what is ridiculous are most unfortunately blended in her . ''  Marianne slept through every blast ; and the travellers -- they had a rich reward in store , for every present inconvenience .  But it is an excellent thing to have Frank among us again , so near as town .  He is generally thought a fine young man , but do not expect a prodigy .  But there is nothing at all of that nature in the letter .  What is all this ? ''  `` Is Mrs. Ferrars at Longstaple ? ''  Her sister 's earnest , though gentle persuasion , however , soon softened her to compliance , and Elinor saw her lay her aching head on the pillow , and as she hoped , in a way to get some quiet rest before she left her .  It was almost enough to spread purification and perfume all the way .  The longer she considered it , the greater was her sense of its expediency .  It was no time for hesitation .  He presently added , with a smile ,  `` I should very much like to see Lyme again , '' said Anne .  And though the consequent shock and alarm was very great and much more durable -- indeed I believe it was half an hour before any of us were comfortable again -- yet that was too general a sensation for any thing of peculiar anxiety to be observable .  I was willing to hope that you must fare better . ''  Sammy Jay was screaming at the top of his lungs , as he followed Buster Bear across the Old Pasture towards the Green Forest .  I do not require you to adopt all my suspicions , though you make so noble a profession of doing it , but I honestly tell you what they are . ''  said Mrs. Jennings , `` that is HER revenge .  I had no intention , I thought I had no power of staying more than five minutes , when I first entered the house .  She was of strict integrity herself , with a delicate sense of honour ; but she was as desirous of saving Sir Walter 's feelings , as solicitous for the credit of the family , as aristocratic in her ideas of what was due to them , as anybody of sense and honesty could well be .  She was so pleased , too , when the children exclaimed with pleasure that now they knew that the beautiful spring had come !  `` Oh , dear ! ''  The other two went home then and left all of the court that was remaining without throwing it down , since their companion was dead .  When the hermit came to the door of the little farm , the two women who lived there were overjoyed to see him , for everyone loved and honoured his name .  But her death , which happened ten years before his own , produced a great alteration in his home ; for to supply her loss , he invited and received into his house the family of his nephew Mr. Henry Dashwood , the legal inheritor of the Norland estate , and the person to whom he intended to bequeath it .  But her condemnation of him did not blind her to the impropriety of their having been written at all ; and she was silently grieving over the imprudence which had hazarded such unsolicited proofs of tenderness , not warranted by anything preceding , and most severely condemned by the event , when Marianne , perceiving that she had finished the letters , observed to her that they contained nothing but what any one would have written in the same situation .  That very dear part of Emma , her fancy , received an amusing supply .  Just at that moment he felt something warm nosing about at his shoulder , and heard a little whinny .  I would give anything to know the truth of it .  No , for on looking very closely she saw that the wee leaves faintly marked a regular row .  The comfort of such a friend at that moment as Colonel Brandon -- or such a companion for her mother , -- how gratefully was it felt ! -- a companion whose judgment would guide , whose attendance must relieve , and whose friendship might soothe her ! -- as far as the shock of such a summons COULD be lessened to her , his presence , his manners , his assistance , would lessen it .  `` And can not you call me `George ' now ? ''  It was on this point that she had hoped to engage Anne 's good offices with Mr Elliot .  His rank in society I would alter if I could , which is saying a great deal I assure you , Emma. -- You laugh at me about William Larkins ; but I could quite as ill spare Robert Martin . ''  He so frequently talked of the increasing expenses of housekeeping , and of the perpetual demands upon his purse , which a man of any consequence in the world was beyond calculation exposed to , that he seemed rather to stand in need of more money himself than to have any design of giving money away .  No !  -- She did not suspect him .  `` Mr. Martin , I suppose , is not a man of information beyond the line of his own business ?  It was too old a story. -- Robert Martin had probably ceased to think of Harriet. -- They took a few turns together along the walk. -- The shade was most refreshing , and Emma found it the pleasantest part of the day .  Emma returned all her attention to her father , saying in secret --  I can not recollect. -- It is very odd , but I can not recollect. -- Mr .  This has been a most agreeable piece of news indeed .  I never spent a pleasanter morning in my life . ''  And that is all that I can recollect of it -- but it is very clever all the way through .  There was no occasion to press the matter farther .  But Sir John would not be satisfied -- the carriage should be sent for them and they must come .  We have already agreed that secrecy may be necessary , and we must acknowledge that it could not be maintained if their correspondence were to pass through Sir John 's hands . ''  He thought it was the Moon .  Oh yes !  Mary had been hysterical again this morning .  The openness and heartiness of her manner more than atoned for that want of recollection and elegance which made her often deficient in the forms of politeness ; her kindness , recommended by so pretty a face , was engaging ; her folly , though evident was not disgusting , because it was not conceited ; and Elinor could have forgiven every thing but her laugh .  `` Ah !  He was so surprised that he almost forgot to keep his wings moving .  `` Yes , I saw every note that passed . ''  You see Farmer Brown 's boy had just discovered Buster Bear .  He stopped .  But what could I do ! -- we were engaged , every thing in preparation , the day almost fixed -- But I am talking like a fool .  All at once , the doors opened and the two children came in .  There is always some talent in it .  And how came he not to have settled that matter before this person 's death ? -- NOW indeed it would be too late to sell it , but a man of Colonel Brandon 's sense ! -- I wonder he should be so improvident in a point of such common , such natural , concern ! -- Well , I am convinced that there is a vast deal of inconsistency in almost every human character .  By whom can you have heard it mentioned ? ''  A degree or two lower , and a creditable appearance might interest me ; I might hope to be useful to their families in some way or other .  Emma could not like what bordered on a reflection on Mr. Weston , and had half a mind to take it up ; but she struggled , and let it pass .  And they could n't catch him .  And putting up her hand to screen her words from Emma -- '' A congratulatory visit , you know. -- Oh !  HOW BROTHER RABBIT FOOLED THE WHALE AND THE ELEPHANT One day little Brother Rabbit was running along on the sand , lippety , lippety , when he saw the Whale and the Elephant talking together .  Then , one day he got a feeling inside him that nothing but crabs could satisfy : he felt that he must have at least one crab .  brought him yet stronger suspicion of there being a something of private liking , of private understanding even , between Frank Churchill and Jane .  She found , on reaching home , that she had , as she intended , escaped seeing Mr Elliot ; that he had called and paid them a long morning visit ; but hardly had she congratulated herself , and felt safe , when she heard that he was coming again in the evening .  As her eyes fell on him , his seemed to be withdrawn from her .  `` Then pray stay at Richmond . ''  `` By all means .  `` Have you finished your letter ? ''  He comes to Highbury himself , he says , six days out of the seven , and has always business at Ford 's .  By ten o'clock the whole party was assembled at the park , where they were to breakfast .  `` Perhaps I intended you to say so , but I meant self-command .  `` Not so large , I dare say , as many people suppose .  At the instant , he felt a sharp prick in his little finger , like a pin prick .  I venture to hint , that Sir Walter Elliot can not be half so jealous for his own , as John Shepherd will be for him . ''  `` Well , I can not understand it . ''  She had taken up a wrong idea , fancying it was a mother and daughter , a son and son 's wife , who all lived together ; but when it appeared that the Mr. Martin , who bore a part in the narrative , and was always mentioned with approbation for his great good-nature in doing something or other , was a single man ; that there was no young Mrs. Martin , no wife in the case ; she did suspect danger to her poor little friend from all this hospitality and kindness , and that , if she were not taken care of , she might be required to sink herself forever .  `` And I am quite serious too , I assure you , '' replied Mrs. Elton gaily , `` in resolving to be always on the watch , and employing my friends to watch also , that nothing really unexceptionable may pass us . ''  That is your date .  If you prefer Mr. Martin to every other person ; if you think him the most agreeable man you have ever been in company with , why should you hesitate ?  `` Lord !  The young man had been the first admirer , but she trusted there was no other hold , and that there would be no serious difficulty , on Harriet 's side , to oppose any friendly arrangement of her own .  If you look across the street , you will see Admiral Brand coming down and his brother .  I shall leave off while I am well . ''  she cried. -- '' And such weather for exploring ! -- These delays and disappointments are quite odious .  He was so much displeased , that it was longer than usual before he came to Hartfield again ; and when they did meet , his grave looks shewed that she was not forgiven .  CHAPTER 49  Only look , sister , how delightful every thing is !  `` No , dear , not every one ; plants are divided into two kinds : those which have two food leaves , like these plants , and those which have only one ; these are called dicotyledonous , and the ones which have but one food leaf are monocotyledonous .  The party was rather large , as it included one other family , a proper unobjectionable country family , whom the Coles had the advantage of naming among their acquaintance , and the male part of Mr. Cox 's family , the lawyer of Highbury .  `` Perhaps , then , it would be better for all parties , if the sum were diminished one half. -- Five hundred pounds would be a prodigious increase to their fortunes ! ''  And he rose from the Emperor 's heart and floated away through the window .  I did not understand you .  what a delightful room this is !  And this belief produced another dread .  I am determined against all interference .  She was obliged to go the next morning for an hour or two to Mrs. Goddard 's , but it was then to be settled that she should return to Hartfield , to make a regular visit of some days .  `` Is Mr. Edward Ferrars , '' said Elinor , with resolution , `` going to be married ? ''  Poor Edward !  And yet , a few minutes afterwards , she felt as if their being in company with each other , under their present circumstances , could only be exposing them to inadvertencies and misconstructions of the most mischievous kind .  She is staying here on a visit to her grandmama and aunt , very worthy people ; I have known them all my life .  and so imperfectly have I discharged my trust ! ''  `` He wrote a letter to poor Mrs. Weston , to congratulate her , and a very proper , handsome letter it was .  Rising from unrest , The trembling woman presse With feet of weary woe ; She could no further go .  I saw her placed in comfortable lodgings , and under proper attendants ; I visited her every day during the rest of her short life : I was with her in her last moments . ''  Only three of us. -- besides dear Jane at present -- and she really eats nothing -- makes such a shocking breakfast , you would be quite frightened if you saw it .  And when he had stopped and the crowd had left , the hermit went and drew the man aside to a place where they could rest ; for he wanted more than anything else on earth to know what the man 's soul was like , because what it was , his was .  But she probably had something of that in her thoughts , when alluding to the misunderstandings which he had given us hints of before .  When you have lived to my age , you will begin to think letters are never worth going through the rain for . ''  `` I love your indignation , '' said he ; `` it is very natural .  He must have had a wet ride. -- Yes. -- He meant to walk with her , she found .  She could not imagine a man more exactly what he ought to be than Mr Elliot ; nor did she ever enjoy a sweeter feeling than the hope of seeing him receive the hand of her beloved Anne in Kellynch church , in the course of the following autumn .  This was very wonderful if it were true ; and Lady Russell was in a state of very agreeable curiosity and perplexity about Mr Elliot , already recanting the sentiment she had so lately expressed to Mary , of his being `` a man whom she had no wish to see . ''  `` It would be very hard upon Mr. Weston if she did not , papa. -- You quite forget poor Mr .  Chuse your own degree of crossness .  A charming place , undoubtedly .  Concern for her unhappiness , and respect for her fortitude under it , must strengthen every attachment .  `` How unlucky that is !  She knew the cruel order of her father , and she said at once , `` This is one of the Hebrews' children . ''  The promise , therefore , was given , and must be performed .  By whom can he have been instigated ? ''  Knightley must never marry .  We had a famous set-to at rat-hunting all the morning in my father 's great barns ; and he played his part so well that I have liked him the better ever since . ''  While they were speaking , a whispering between her father and Elizabeth caught her ear .  About four days after Edward 's arrival Colonel Brandon appeared , to complete Mrs. Dashwood 's satisfaction , and to give her the dignity of having , for the first time since her living at Barton , more company with her than her house would hold .  Emma soon saw that her companion was not in the happiest humour .  He never wished to attach me .  Every body had a degree of gravity and sorrow ; tenderness towards the departed , solicitude for the surviving friends ; and , in a reasonable time , curiosity to know where she would be buried .  I have been seeing their intimacy with the greatest pleasure .  She might not wonder , but she must sigh that her father should feel no degradation in his change , should see nothing to regret in the duties and dignity of the resident landholder , should find so much to be vain of in the littlenesses of a town ; and she must sigh , and smile , and wonder too , as Elizabeth threw open the folding-doors and walked with exultation from one drawing-room to the other , boasting of their space ; at the possibility of that woman , who had been mistress of Kellynch Hall , finding extent to be proud of between two walls , perhaps thirty feet asunder .  Oh , Elinor , how incomprehensible are your feelings !  A woman is not to marry a man merely because she is asked , or because he is attached to her , and can write a tolerable letter . ''  The truth is , he thought all the time that he was preventing Buster Bear from getting a breakfast .  I know Marianne 's heart : I know that she dearly loves me , and that I shall not be the last to whom the affair is made known , when circumstances make the revealment of it eligible .  I will keep my ill-humour to myself .  dear , no , never . ''  Mr. Knightley connected it with the dream ; but how it could all be , was beyond his comprehension .  Manners were all that could be safely judged of , under a much longer knowledge than they had yet had of Mr. Churchill .  He was cut short by the eager attacks of the little boys , clinging to him like an old friend , and declaring he should not go ; and being too much engrossed by proposals of carrying them away in his coat pockets , & c. , to have another moment for finishing or recollecting what he had begun , Anne was left to persuade herself , as well as she could , that the same brother must still be in question .  He tried to pull it off , but somehow he could n't get hold of it .  Captain Harville has no thought but of going . ''  and Emma received a smile which seemed to say , `` These are my own concerns .  Then , if you please , you shall send it all to Mrs. Goddard 's -- I do not know -- No , I think , Miss Woodhouse , I may just as well have it sent to Hartfield , and take it home with me at night .  I never could have supposed it .  Strangers filling their place ! ''  `` Dear , dear Elinor , do n't mind them .  But I thought , at the time , that you would most likely change your mind when it came to the point .  In about five minutes he returned .  CHAPTER VIII  As Robert raised his eyes , he saw the face of the king smiling at him with a radiance like nothing on earth , and as he sank to his knees before the glory of that smile , a voice sounded with the music , like a melody throbbing on a single string , -- `` I am an angel , and thou art the king ! ''  My , I wish to-morrow morning would hurry up and come . ''  `` How ! ''  And all this was said with a truth and sincerity of feeling irresistible .  Then , later , he had to fight against the king 's own soldiers , to save himself , for King Saul grew wickedly jealous of David 's fame as a soldier , and tried to kill him .  She was extremely angry with herself .  Well !  Some people even talked of a promise to his wife on her deathbed , and others of the son and the uncle not letting him .  Captain Wentworth was folding up a letter in great haste , and either could not or would not answer fully .  He came , examined his patient , and though encouraging Miss Dashwood to expect that a very few days would restore her sister to health , yet , by pronouncing her disorder to have a putrid tendency , and allowing the word `` infection '' to pass his lips , gave instant alarm to Mrs. Palmer , on her baby 's account .  From this time Captain Wentworth and Anne Elliot were repeatedly in the same circle .  -- For some moments her voice was lost ; but recovering herself , she added , and with greater calmness than before -- '' I am now perfectly satisfied , I wish for no change .  They might in fact , have borne down a great deal more than they met with , for there was little to distress them beyond the want of graciousness and warmth .  His tall , firm , upright figure , among the bulky forms and stooping shoulders of the elderly men , was such as Emma felt must draw every body 's eyes ; and , excepting her own partner , there was not one among the whole row of young men who could be compared with him. -- He moved a few steps nearer , and those few steps were enough to prove in how gentlemanlike a manner , with what natural grace , he must have danced , would he but take the trouble. -- Whenever she caught his eye , she forced him to smile ; but in general he was looking grave .  An ' out she comes hersel ' , Jist as he got in sight , To pick up shticks to make her fire : `` Aha ! ''  `` Yes ; but I do n't see any lock , '' said the little Jackal , `` does it lock on the outside ? ''  `` I insist on you hearing the whole of it , '' he replied , `` My fortune was never large , and I had always been expensive , always in the habit of associating with people of better income than myself .  at least , that I should ever bore people half so much about all the Knightleys together , as she does about Jane Fairfax .  `` I shall never be invited to Abbey-Mill again , '' was said in rather a sorrowful tone .  Elinor 's heart was full .  You must consider me only as Mr Elliot 's relation .  Mr. Elton had retreated into the card-room , looking ( Emma trusted ) very foolish .  On their return from the park they found Willoughby 's curricle and servant in waiting at the cottage , and Mrs. Dashwood was convinced that her conjecture had been just .  If their evenings at the park were concluded with cards , he cheated himself and all the rest of the party to get her a good hand .  Oh !  If only he had wings like Sammy Jay !  Sir Walter had once been in company with the late viscount , but had never seen any of the rest of the family ; and the difficulties of the case arose from there having been a suspension of all intercourse by letters of ceremony , ever since the death of that said late viscount , when , in consequence of a dangerous illness of Sir Walter 's at the same time , there had been an unlucky omission at Kellynch .  She will be mistaken , however .  `` Ho !  The next olive season , the olive trees in the orchard bore more fruit than they had ever given before ; the fine cultivating they had had from the digging brought so much fruit , and of so fine a quality , that when it was sold it gave the sons a whole pot of gold !  The house , too , as described by Sir John , was on so simple a scale , and the rent so uncommonly moderate , as to leave her no right of objection on either point ; and , therefore , though it was not a plan which brought any charm to her fancy , though it was a removal from the vicinity of Norland beyond her wishes , she made no attempt to dissuade her mother from sending a letter of acquiescence .  There was one circumstance in the history of her grievances of particular irritation .  `` Your sister , '' he continued , `` has suffered dreadfully .  XI BLACKY THE CROW TELLS HIS PLAN Blacky is a dreamer !  If I find him conversable , I shall be glad of his acquaintance ; but if he is only a chattering coxcomb , he will not occupy much of my time or thoughts . ''  He was wishing to get the better of his attachment to herself , she just recovering from her mania for Mr. Elton .  `` When Miss Smiths and Mr. Eltons get acquainted -- they do indeed -- and really it is strange ; it is out of the common course that what is so evidently , so palpably desirable -- what courts the pre-arrangement of other people , should so immediately shape itself into the proper form .  The event was more favourable to Mr. Woodhouse than to Emma .  Mrs Clay 's affections had overpowered her interest , and she had sacrificed , for the young man 's sake , the possibility of scheming longer for Sir Walter .  `` We shall never agree upon this question , '' Captain Harville was beginning to say , when a slight noise called their attention to Captain Wentworth 's hitherto perfectly quiet division of the room .  I hope it is a dry situation , and that her health will be taken good care of .  Its character as a ball-room caught him ; and instead of passing on , he stopt for several minutes at the two superior sashed windows which were open , to look in and contemplate its capabilities , and lament that its original purpose should have ceased .  Tell your aunt , little Emma , that she ought to set you a better example than to be renewing old grievances , and that if she were not wrong before , she is now . ''  He just hung his head , which is something Blacky seldom does .  I am sure you will not like him . ''  With horror , the prince felt himself being transformed into a monster .  If he were deficient there , nothing should make amends for it .  They described the drawing-room window-curtains of one of the houses on this side of the way , and this part of the street , as being the handsomest and best hung of any in Bath , but could not recollect the exact number , and I have been trying to find out which it could be ; but I confess I can see no curtains hereabouts that answer their description . ''  `` Now he must begin all over again with somebody else .  `` Ah !  `` They talked a great deal about him , especially Anne Cox .  `` How did it happen ? ''  He had left the girl whose youth and innocence he had seduced , in a situation of the utmost distress , with no creditable home , no help , no friends , ignorant of his address !  `` They wo n't rule me , '' he said .  The substance of this letter was forwarded to Emma , in a note from Mrs. Weston , instantly .  `` I presume to observe , Sir Walter , that , in the way of business , gentlemen of the navy are well to deal with .  Margery could almost smell the posies , she was so excited .  He could not understand it ; but there were symptoms of intelligence between them -- he thought so at least -- symptoms of admiration on his side , which , having once observed , he could not persuade himself to think entirely void of meaning , however he might wish to escape any of Emma 's errors of imagination .  `` Aye , very true. -- I wish I could recollect more of it .  `` My dear sir , upon no account in the world ; my father can direct me . ''  `` If this open weather holds much longer , '' said Mrs. Jennings , when they met at breakfast the following morning , `` Sir John will not like leaving Barton next week ; 't is a sad thing for sportsmen to lose a day 's pleasure .  His manners to THEM , though calm , were perfectly kind ; to Mrs. Jennings , most attentively civil ; and on Colonel Brandon 's coming in soon after himself , he eyed him with a curiosity which seemed to say , that he only wanted to know him to be rich , to be equally civil to HIM .  When I look back to the first time I saw him !  Her sensibility was potent enough !  They remained but a few minutes together , as Miss Woodhouse must not be kept waiting ; and Harriet then came running to her with a smiling face , and in a flutter of spirits , which Miss Woodhouse hoped very soon to compose .  On that article , truth seemed attainable .  But I had just settled within myself to ask the Miss Steeles to spend a few days with us .  And therefore I think I will beg your excuse and take my three turns -- my winter walk . ''  I was afraid there could be little chance of my hearing any thing of Miss Fairfax to-day . ''  This topic was discussed very happily , and others succeeded of similar moment , and passed away with similar harmony ; but the evening did not close without a little return of agitation .  She had no visible friends but what had been acquired at Highbury , and was now just returned from a long visit in the country to some young ladies who had been at school there with her .  What Miss Anne says , is very true , '' was Mr Shepherd 's rejoinder , and `` Oh !  The hermit bent his head before the two women , and gave thanks in his heart .  Mr. Knightley and Harriet had arrived during her absence , and were sitting with her father. -- Mr .  He was very much pleased with Randalls , thought it a most admirably arranged house , would hardly allow it even to be very small , admired the situation , the walk to Highbury , Highbury itself , Hartfield still more , and professed himself to have always felt the sort of interest in the country which none but one 's _own_ country gives , and the greatest curiosity to visit it .  I would n't mind if I had it myself . ''  Not that Emma was gay and thoughtless from any real felicity ; it was rather because she felt less happy than she had expected .  `` Go away ! ''  She would not be frightened from paying him those attentions which , as a friend and almost a relation , were his due , by the observant eyes of Lucy , though she soon perceived them to be narrowly watching her .  Poor Fanny !  but one never does form a just idea of any body beforehand .  All that I had to do , was to avoid you both .  She had not been prepared to have Jane Fairfax succeed Mr. Elton ; but he was actually hurried off by Miss Bates , she jumped away from him at last abruptly to the Coles , to usher in a letter from her niece .  `` No , Marianne , never .  He loves any thing of the sort , and especially any thing that pays woman a compliment .  `` I saw you first in February .  This was Sir Walter and Elizabeth 's share of interest in the letter ; when Mrs Clay had paid her tribute of more decent attention , in an enquiry after Mrs Charles Musgrove , and her fine little boys , Anne was at liberty .  `` That gives me no idea at all , '' said the little Jackal .  Then he sat down close to the edge of it and did n't move .  `` Where -- may I ask ? -- is Miss Fairfax going ? ''  Edward remained a week at the cottage ; he was earnestly pressed by Mrs. Dashwood to stay longer ; but , as if he were bent only on self-mortification , he seemed resolved to be gone when his enjoyment among his friends was at the height .  there were very different thoughts to succeed .  THE LITTLE JACKAL AND THE ALLIGATOR The little Jackal was very fond of shell-fish .  `` You dear , lovely little thing ! ''  -- was a question , however , which did not augur much .  Harriet was to sit again the next day ; and Mr. Elton , just as he ought , entreated for the permission of attending and reading to them again .  `` Yet it certainly soon will happen .  Chapter 15  But if , which I rather imagine , your making the match , as you call it , means only your planning it , your saying to yourself one idle day , `I think it would be a very good thing for Miss Taylor if Mr. Weston were to marry her , ' and saying it again to yourself every now and then afterwards , why do you talk of success ?  He could say no more ; and with the hope of Hartfield to reward him , returned with Mrs. Weston to Mrs. Bates 's door .  `` Not quite , '' returned Emma , with forced calmness , `` for all that you then said , appeared to me to relate to a different person .  Edward has drawn his own lot , and I fear it will be a bad one . ''  `` Perhaps I shall .  Everything was still save for the laughter of the Laughing Brook .  `` I have the strangest feeling , '' said the Camel , -- '' I feel as if I must roll over . ''  The clock struck twelve as she passed through the hall .  I mean to make my profit of Mrs Wallis , however .  Oh !  Soldiers , in active service , are not at all better off : and even in the quieter professions , there is a toil and a labour of the mind , if not of the body , which seldom leaves a man 's looks to the natural effect of time .  He has broken no faith with me . ''  I shall go to the piano-forte ; I have not touched it since it was tuned . ''  My poor Charles , who had the finest , most generous spirit in the world , would have divided his last farthing with him ; and I know that his purse was open to him ; I know that he often assisted him . ''  The information was , as you state , that he was going to be married to a Miss Hawkins .  `` No great variety of faces for you , '' said Emma .  If ever there were people who , without having great wealth themselves , had every thing they could wish for , I am sure it is us .  `` Oh , no , '' said the little girl , `` those are bullfrogs , croaking . ''  `` More than an attachment , indeed , '' resumed Mrs. Weston ; `` an engagement -- a positive engagement. -- What will you say , Emma -- what will any body say , when it is known that Frank Churchill and Miss Fairfax are engaged ; -- nay , that they have been long engaged ! ''  She had fallen into good hands , known nothing but kindness from the Campbells , and been given an excellent education .  Now , I can think and speak of it with little emotion .  Of course , Chatterer the Red Squirrel and Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel were there .  `` They had already spent a week in this manner in Conduit Street , and Lady Middleton could not be displeased at their giving the same number of days to such near relations . ''  She is as low as possible .  That Mr. and Mrs. Weston did think of it , she was very strongly persuaded ; and though not meaning to be induced by him , or by any body else , to give up a situation which she believed more replete with good than any she could change it for , she had a great curiosity to see him , a decided intention of finding him pleasant , of being liked by him to a certain degree , and a sort of pleasure in the idea of their being coupled in their friends ' imaginations .  I left you in this belief ; and yet , I was determined to see you again .  `` Wait till I come home to-night , dear , '' said her father , `` and I 'll tell you . ''  That is _court_ .  She began immediately to determine , that Edward who lived with his mother , must be asked as his mother was , to a party given by his sister ; and to see him for the first time , after all that passed , in the company of Lucy ! -- she hardly knew how she could bear it !  Harriet smiled again , and her smiles grew stronger .  The carriage was sent for them now .  then through all my twigs I feel the slow sap stirring .  Jane , do you know I always fancy Mr. Dixon like Mr. John Knightley .  I would lay any wager it is about Miss Williams .  To be sure , he wasn't in the Green Forest now , but he was n't far from it .  `` It is so , indeed , '' continued Mr. Knightley ; `` I have it from Robert Martin himself .  Next week ?  I can hardly believe it. -- I thought I knew him . ''  He stopt again , rose again , and seemed quite embarrassed. -- He was more in love with her than Emma had supposed ; and who can say how it might have ended , if his father had not made his appearance ?  She was entreated to give them as much of her time as possible , invited for every day and all day long , or rather claimed as part of the family ; and , in return , she naturally fell into all her wonted ways of attention and assistance , and on Charles 's leaving them together , was listening to Mrs Musgrove 's history of Louisa , and to Henrietta 's of herself , giving opinions on business , and recommendations to shops ; with intervals of every help which Mary required , from altering her ribbon to settling her accounts ; from finding her keys , and assorting her trinkets , to trying to convince her that she was not ill-used by anybody ; which Mary , well amused as she generally was , in her station at a window overlooking the entrance to the Pump Room , could not but have her moments of imagining .  As to myself , I am very sorry that you should have been giving way to any feelings -- Nothing could be farther from my wishes -- your attachment to my friend Harriet -- your pursuit of her , ( pursuit , it appeared , ) gave me great pleasure , and I have been very earnestly wishing you success : but had I supposed that she were not your attraction to Hartfield , I should certainly have thought you judged ill in making your visits so frequent .  Not merely when a state of warfare with one young lady might be supposed to recommend the other , but from the very first ; and she was not satisfied with expressing a natural and reasonable admiration -- but without solicitation , or plea , or privilege , she must be wanting to assist and befriend her. -- Before Emma had forfeited her confidence , and about the third time of their meeting , she heard all Mrs. Elton 's knight-errantry on the subject. --  When he got home , all the butter Epaminondas had was _on him_ .  My mother 's are really very good indeed .  And the threshers could n't catch him .  Charlotte is very pretty , I can tell you .  THE LITTLE BLACK BOY My mother bore me in the southern wild , And I am black , but oh my soul is white !  `` Did you ? ''  -- hesitatingly it was said. -- '' Or will it be wrong ? -- I can talk of it now , I hope , as I ought to do . ''  `` You are mistaken , '' said he gently , `` that is not good company ; that is the best .  In my Bath life , I have seen such instances of it !  Though now the middle of December , there had yet been no weather to prevent the young ladies from tolerably regular exercise ; and on the morrow , Emma had a charitable visit to pay to a poor sick family , who lived a little way out of Highbury .  Emma did not want to be classed with the Mrs. Eltons , the Mrs. Perrys , and the Mrs. Coles , who would force themselves anywhere ; neither could she feel any right of preference herself -- she submitted , therefore , and only questioned Miss Bates farther as to her niece 's appetite and diet , which she longed to be able to assist .  He began by speaking of the concert gravely , more like the Captain Wentworth of Uppercross ; owned himself disappointed , had expected singing ; and in short , must confess that he should not be sorry when it was over .  I know he was invited and encouraged , and I know he did not choose to go .  She is known only as parlour-boarder at a common school .  Charles Hayter seemed aware of being slighted , and yet Henrietta had sometimes the air of being divided between them .  I would lay fifty guineas the letter was of his own writing . ''  With great indignation did he continue to observe him ; with great alarm and distrust , to observe also his two blinded companions .  They have brought the whole coach full of playthings for the children .  `` I am very sorry , '' said the Mouse-deer , `` but you know I am Chief Dancer of the War-dance , and the Woodpecker came and sounded the war-gong , so I danced .  `` Well , papa , if this is not encouragement to marry , I do not know what is .  she would not have forgotten him so soon ! ''  `` Pray take care , Mrs. Weston , there is a step at the turning .  Sometimes the singers were divided into two great choruses , and went to the service in two processions ; then one chorus would sing a verse of David 's song , and the other procession would answer with the next , and then both would sing together ; it was very beautiful to hear .  The cruelty of Mrs. Jennings no language , within her reach in her moments of happiest eloquence , could have expressed ; and now she could reproach her only by the tears which streamed from her eyes with passionate violence -- a reproach , however , so entirely lost on its object , that after many expressions of pity , she withdrew , still referring her to the letter of comfort .  She dropped her apronful of sticks , and flew up to the big beam across the ceiling .  I called her a distant relation ; but I am well aware that I have in general been suspected of a much nearer connection with her .  and so forth -- I always felt that something would happen in our favour ; and so it has , you see .  She was as handsome a girl last September , as I ever saw ; and as likely to attract the man .  `` I did myself the honour of calling in Berkeley Street last Tuesday , and very much regretted that I was not fortunate enough to find yourselves and Mrs. Jennings at home .  yes , perhaps , it had been Mr Elliot .  `` You may well be surprised , '' continued Lucy ; `` for to be sure you could have had no idea of it before ; for I dare say he never dropped the smallest hint of it to you or any of your family ; because it was always meant to be a great secret , and I am sure has been faithfully kept so by me to this hour .  But no donkey was there .  We will each take hold of one end of a stout stick , and do you take the middle in your mouth ; then we will fly up in the air with you and carry you with us .  If he runs away , I will be the first to admit that Buster Bear is as great a hero as some of you seem to think he is .  `` Papa , '' she said , all out of breath , `` do you think we could have made a mistake about my garden ?  Always to be presented with the date of her own birth and see no marriage follow but that of a youngest sister , made the book an evil ; and more than once , when her father had left it open on the table near her , had she closed it , with averted eyes , and pushed it away .  The difference between his present air and what it had been in the Octagon Room was strikingly great .  Can I do any thing for you ? ''  She vowed at first she would never trim me up a new bonnet , nor do any thing else for me again , so long as she lived ; but now she is quite come to , and we are as good friends as ever .  `` It is not to be conceived that a man of three or four-and-twenty should not have liberty of mind or limb to that amount .  The first heedless scheme had been to go in the morning and return at night ; but to this Mr Musgrove , for the sake of his horses , would not consent ; and when it came to be rationally considered , a day in the middle of November would not leave much time for seeing a new place , after deducting seven hours , as the nature of the country required , for going and returning .  I do not pretend to be a wit .  `` Have you heard from Miss Fairfax so lately ?  Mrs. Perry was very anxious that he should have a carriage , and came to my mother in great spirits one morning because she thought she had prevailed .  They made the Israelites slaves .  One day she gave him a big piece of cake ; nice , yellow , rich gold-cake .  There had been a time also when Emma would have been sorry to see Harriet in a spot so favourable for the Abbey Mill Farm ; but now she feared it not .  `` Here is something quite new to me .  `` I have heard him lamenting her having no instrument repeatedly ; oftener than I should suppose such a circumstance would , in the common course of things , occur to him . ''  She did not repent what she had done ; she still thought herself a better judge of such a point of female right and refinement than he could be ; but yet she had a sort of habitual respect for his judgment in general , which made her dislike having it so loudly against her ; and to have him sitting just opposite to her in angry state , was very disagreeable .  `` There is so pointed , and so particular a meaning in this compliment , '' said she , `` that I can not have a doubt as to Mr. Elton 's intentions .  In those days men were apt to invent stories to account for things about them which seemed peculiar , and loving the sea as they did , it is not strange that they had remarked the peculiarity of the ocean water and had found a reason why it is so different from the water in the rivers and steams .  All these jealousies and discontents , however , were so totally unsuspected by Mrs. Jennings , that she thought it a delightful thing for the girls to be together ; and generally congratulated her young friends every night , on having escaped the company of a stupid old woman so long .  cried Sir John ; `` what , is HE in the country ?  This was the letter , directed to `` Charles Smith , Esq .  Elinor paid her every quiet and unobtrusive attention in her power ; and she would have tried to sooth and tranquilize her still more , had not Marianne entreated her , with all the eagerness of the most nervous irritability , not to speak to her for the world .  What would you advise me to do ?  Mary 's declaration was , `` I hate sending the children to the Great House , though their grandmamma is always wanting to see them , for she humours and indulges them to such a degree , and gives them so much trash and sweet things , that they are sure to come back sick and cross for the rest of the day . ''  Never in her life had Elinor found it so difficult to be calm , as at that moment .  `` Oh , Mother , dear Mother , '' they said , `` you must move us away to-night !  So began Miss Bates ; and Mr. Knightley seemed determined to be heard in his turn , for most resolutely and commandingly did he say ,  `` And here is my sweet little Annamaria , '' she added , tenderly caressing a little girl of three years old , who had not made a noise for the last two minutes ; `` And she is always so gentle and quiet -- Never was there such a quiet little thing ! ''  At Lyme .  and he sneered at the beautiful singing , as he leaned back in his place .  Emma could not but feel all this ; and then , her face -- her features -- there was more beauty in them altogether than she had remembered ; it was not regular , but it was very pleasing beauty .  `` When do you go back again ? ''  `` I thought you were both in Devonshire , '' said he .  Her situation was altogether the subject of hours of gratitude to Mrs. Weston , and of moments only of regret ; and her satisfaction -- her more than satisfaction -- her cheerful enjoyment , was so just and so apparent , that Emma , well as she knew her father , was sometimes taken by surprize at his being still able to pity `poor Miss Taylor , ' when they left her at Randalls in the centre of every domestic comfort , or saw her go away in the evening attended by her pleasant husband to a carriage of her own .  Cole does not want to be wiser or wittier than his neighbours . ''  We should all have liked her a great deal better ; and papa and mamma always think it was her great friend Lady Russell 's doing , that she did not .  The old sexton heard some one shouting and pounding in the church , and thought it was some drunken vagabond who had stolen in during the service .  Hers is a line for seeing human nature ; and she has a fund of good sense and observation , which , as a companion , make her infinitely superior to thousands of those who having only received `the best education in the world , ' know nothing worth attending to .  She had been thinking of him the moment before , as unquestionably sixteen miles distant. -- There was time only for the quickest arrangement of mind .  She liked writing stories best of all her work , but she did not get much money for them , and some people told her she was wasting her time .  `` You have , I believe , and know the whole . ''  Mrs. Smallridge is in a great hurry .  This increased the mirth of the company , and Margaret was eagerly pressed to say something more .  The visitors took their leave ; and Charles , having civilly seen them off , and then made a face at them , and abused them for coming , began with --  `` You take my advice , Little Joe Otter , '' continued Grandfather Frog , `` and always make friends with those who are bigger and stronger and smarter than you are .  I have the highest opinion in the world of Edward 's heart .  -- Marianne was softened in a moment .  I have made no enquiries , because I concluded you must have been obliged to give up the party . ''  `` I have been considering what we had best do .  no , nothing should tempt me to leave her .  `` Well , Emma , I do not believe I have any thing more to say about the boys ; but you have your sister 's letter , and every thing is down at full length there we may be sure .  There is no hurry at all .  She had raised herself from the ground , but her foot had been twisted in her fall , and she was scarcely able to stand .  The tiny fairies who were hidden away there were not used to remaining still , and they were getting restless .  -- Ford 's was the principal woollen-draper , linen-draper , and haberdasher 's shop united ; the shop first in size and fashion in the place. -- '' And so , there she had set , without an idea of any thing in the world , full ten minutes , perhaps -- when , all of a sudden , who should come in -- to be sure it was so very odd ! -- but they always dealt at Ford 's -- who should come in , but Elizabeth Martin and her brother ! -- Dear Miss Woodhouse !  cried Marianne , `` there has been no engagement . ''  Emma saw his anxiety , and wishing to appease it , at least for the present , said , and with a sincerity which no one could question --  `` Was he agreeable ? ''  `` It is not worth while , Harriet , to give Mrs. Ford the trouble of two parcels . ''  said Buster Bear .  When first sounded on the subject , he was so miserable , that they were almost hopeless. -- A second allusion , indeed , gave less pain. -- He began to think it was to be , and that he could not prevent it -- a very promising step of the mind on its way to resignation .  `` Perhaps it is as well , '' said Frank Churchill , as he attended Emma to her carriage .  `` Indeed you wrong me , '' replied Lucy , with great solemnity ; `` I know nobody of whose judgment I think so highly as I do of yours ; and I do really believe , that if you was to say to me , 'I advise you by all means to put an end to your engagement with Edward Ferrars , it will be more for the happiness of both of you , ' I should resolve upon doing it immediately . ''  That very day they commenced their task .  for I know gentlemen do not like morning visits , and Mr. Elton 's time is so engaged . ''  Mrs. Weston had been delighted before , and was delighted again ; Emma joined her in all her praise ; and the pianoforte , with every proper discrimination , was pronounced to be altogether of the highest promise .  In Frank 's last letter she complained , he said , of being too weak to get into her conservatory without having both his arm and his uncle 's !  `` If you would but let us know what your business is , '' said Mrs. Jennings , `` we might see whether it could be put off or not . ''  He was received by Mrs. Dashwood with more than politeness ; with a kindness which Sir John 's account of him and her own gratitude prompted ; and every thing that passed during the visit tended to assure him of the sense , elegance , mutual affection , and domestic comfort of the family to whom accident had now introduced him .  `` Come , come ; this is all an effusion of immediate want of spirits , Edward .  A valuable legacy indeed !  Who regards me ? ''  The naivete of Miss Smith 's manners -- and altogether -- Oh , it is most admirable !  Ladies and gentlemen -- I am ordered by Miss Woodhouse to say , that she waives her right of knowing exactly what you may all be thinking of , and only requires something very entertaining from each of you , in a general way .  You may be sure that the postman was puzzled what to do with this letter when he sorted it out of the heap in the letter-box .  Something new for your coachman and horses to be making their way through a storm of snow . ''  Her second note , which had been written on the morning after the dance at the Middletons ' , was in these words : --  The friends from whom she had just parted , though very good sort of people , must be doing her harm .  They will soon be back again , and then they 'd be sure and call here . ''  Epaminondas took it in his fist and held it all crunched up tight , like this , and came along home .  `` I was as well satisfied with my appointment as you can desire .  `` I shall soon bring him over to Hartfield , '' said he , at the conclusion .  Lady Russell confessed she had expected something better ; but yet `` it was an acquaintance worth having ; '' and when Anne ventured to speak her opinion of them to Mr Elliot , he agreed to their being nothing in themselves , but still maintained that , as a family connexion , as good company , as those who would collect good company around them , they had their value .  Should the result of her observations be unfavourable , she was determined at all events to open the eyes of her sister ; should it be otherwise , her exertions would be of a different nature -- she must then learn to avoid every selfish comparison , and banish every regret which might lessen her satisfaction in the happiness of Marianne .  Robert Martin would never have proceeded so far , if he had not felt persuaded of her not being disinclined to him .  With the prospect of spending at least two months at Uppercross , it was highly incumbent on her to clothe her imagination , her memory , and all her ideas in as much of Uppercross as possible .  Harriet was too intent on the lines to hear .  Her daughter did not look , however , as if much of it were heard by her .  `` You did behave very shamefully .  `` I perfectly agree with you , sir , '' -- was then his remark .  This was quite a female case , and it would be highly absurd in him , who could be of no use at home , to shut himself up .  DIVINE IMAGE To Mercy , Pity , Peace , and Love , All pray in their distress , And to these virtues of delight Return their thankfulness .  No , my dear little modest Harriet , depend upon it the picture will not be in Bond-street till just before he mounts his horse to-morrow .  Emma , you are a great dreamer , I think ? ''  The only living thing near was an old , bony , grey donkey .  The child to be born at Randalls must be a tie there even dearer than herself ; and Mrs. Weston 's heart and time would be occupied by it .  `` The whole history , '' repeated Anne , laughing .  `` One should be sorry to see greater pride or refinement in the teacher of a school , Harriet .  Such as it is , however , my pleasure in presenting him to it , will be very great .  Oh !  She even addressed him once , and looked at him more than once .  Was not the Christ Child born on Christmas Day , and did not He send good gifts to men on His birthday ?  And there the lion 's ruddy eyes Shall flow with tears of gold : And pitying the tender cries , And walking round the fold : Saying : `` Wrath by His meekness , And , by His health , sickness , Are driven away From our immortal day .  They had nearly done breakfast , when the sound of a carriage , ( almost the first they had heard since entering Lyme ) drew half the party to the window .  But just got acquainted with Mrs. Weston , and others ! -- I hate the recollection . ''  A man like him , in his situation !  Marianne was to have the best place by the fire , was to be tempted to eat by every delicacy in the house , and to be amused by the relation of all the news of the day .  Mary always has her own way . ''  Mr. Knightley was thoughtful again .  Or Love in a golden bowl ?  Charles and Henrietta returned , bringing , as may be conjectured , Charles Hayter with them .  Did not keep the horses a moment .  Her care and attention could not be questioned ; they were , in fact , only too great .  At last , he dreamed that he had entered the castle of fortune and was being received with great festivities .  But then you know , how should I guess such a thing ?  `` How is she , Miss Dashwood ? -- Poor thing !  They must be taking off some trouble from the good people she was with ; they might at least relieve Mrs Harville from the care of her own children ; and in short , they were so happy in the decision , that Anne was delighted with what she had done , and felt that she could not spend her last morning at Uppercross better than in assisting their preparations , and sending them off at an early hour , though her being left to the solitary range of the house was the consequence .  There was consciousness of some sort or other .  I wish I could conjecture how soon I shall make this rivet quite firm .  Harriet was on the point of leaving the room , and only stopt to say , with a very interesting naivete ,  said he .  Little Joe slipped into the water and chased all the fish out of the little pool , and stirred up the mud on the bottom so that the water was so muddy that the bottom could n't be seen at all .  Sir John had been very urgent with them all to spend the next day at the park .  `` It was not inclination that he wanted , Elinor ; I could plainly see THAT .  I am quite of your opinion .  `` My dear , dear anxious friend , '' -- said she , in mental soliloquy , while walking downstairs from her own room , `` always overcareful for every body 's comfort but your own ; I see you now in all your little fidgets , going again and again into his room , to be sure that all is right . ''  Mrs Wallis has an amusing idea , as nurse tells me , that it is to be put into the marriage articles when you and Mr Elliot marry , that your father is not to marry Mrs Clay .  You see , he is just as fond of fishing as is Little Joe Otter or Billy Mink or Buster Bear .  CHAPTER 48  `` They would look around them , no doubt , and bless their good fortune , '' said Mrs Clay , for Mrs Clay was present : her father had driven her over , nothing being of so much use to Mrs Clay 's health as a drive to Kellynch : `` but I quite agree with my father in thinking a sailor might be a very desirable tenant .  She could not refuse to give him hers 's ; -- he pressed it with affection .  The power of disappointing them , it was true , must always be her 's .  `` I do not know whether it ought to be so , but certainly silly things do cease to be silly if they are done by sensible people in an impudent way .  `` Oh !  Mr. Weston had been so very earnest in his entreaties for her arriving there as soon as possible after themselves , for the purpose of taking her opinion as to the propriety and comfort of the rooms before any other persons came , that she could not refuse him , and must therefore spend some quiet interval in the young man 's company .  `` Is that Fanny 's hair ?  `` It seems like madness !  The child 's situation put the visit entirely aside ; but she could not hear of her escape with indifference , even in the midst of the serious anxiety which they afterwards felt on his account .  At this moment whom are you thinking of ? ''  With music and flags and flowers he made the King of Sicily welcome , and greeted him as his brother .  He did not know what was come to his master lately , he said , but he could hardly ever get the speech of him .  I made sure of its being nothing but a common love letter , and you know young people like to be laughed at about them .  Anne admired the good acting of the friend , in being able to shew such pleasure as she did , in the expectation and in the actual arrival of the very person whose presence must really be interfering with her prime object .  -- And when Mrs. Bates was saying something to Emma , whispered farther , `` We do not say a word of any _assistance_ that Perry might have ; not a word of a certain young physician from Windsor. -- Oh !  he said .  The consequence of this , upon a mind so young , so lively , so inexperienced as Mrs. Brandon 's , was but too natural .  I always say this is quite one of the evils of matrimony . ''  Of Edward , or at least of some of his concerns , she now received intelligence from Colonel Brandon , who had been into Dorsetshire lately ; and who , treating her at once as the disinterested friend of Mr. Ferrars , and the kind of confidant of himself , talked to her a great deal of the parsonage at Delaford , described its deficiencies , and told her what he meant to do himself towards removing them. -- His behaviour to her in this , as well as in every other particular , his open pleasure in meeting her after an absence of only ten days , his readiness to converse with her , and his deference for her opinion , might very well justify Mrs. Jennings 's persuasion of his attachment , and would have been enough , perhaps , had not Elinor still , as from the first , believed Marianne his real favourite , to make her suspect it herself .  It was well that he took every body 's joy for granted , or he might not have thought either Mr. Woodhouse or Mr. Knightley particularly delighted .  He acquiesced in all her decisions , caught all her enthusiasm ; and long before his visit concluded , they conversed with the familiarity of a long-established acquaintance .  Winthrop , without beauty and without dignity , was stretched before them an indifferent house , standing low , and hemmed in by the barns and buildings of a farm-yard .  And now , Elinor , what have you to say ? ''  It did not appear to him that Sir Walter could materially alter his style of living in a house which had such a character of hospitality and ancient dignity to support .  I think Miss Fairfax dances very well ; and Mrs. Weston is the very best country-dance player , without exception , in England .  Now Little Joe is good-natured and full of fun as a rule , and after he had reached home and his temper had cooled off a little , he began to see the joke on himself , -- how when he had worked so hard to frighten the fish in the little pools of the Laughing Brook so that Buster Bear should not catch any , he had all the time been driving them right into Buster 's paws .  He _was_ being watched .  He imagined , and calmly could he imagine it , that her extravagance , and consequent distress , had obliged her to dispose of it for some immediate relief .  yes -- Mr. Elton , I understand -- certainly as to dancing -- Mrs. Cole was telling me that dancing at the rooms at Bath was -- Mrs. Cole was so kind as to sit some time with us , talking of Jane ; for as soon as she came in , she began inquiring after her , Jane is so very great a favourite there .  `` Look out , I am coming ! ''  Margaret and I shall be as much benefited by it as yourselves .  That will obviate all difficulties you know ; and from _us_ I really think , my dear Jane , you can have no scruple to accept such an accommodation . ''  `` I not aware ! ''  As soon as I could use my hands she taught me to knit , which has been a great amusement ; and she put me in the way of making these little thread-cases , pin-cushions and card-racks , which you always find me so busy about , and which supply me with the means of doing a little good to one or two very poor families in this neighbourhood .  `` I am sure you think me very strange , for enquiring about her in such a way , '' said Lucy , eyeing Elinor attentively as she spoke ; `` but perhaps there may be reasons -- I wish I might venture ; but however I hope you will do me the justice of believing that I do not mean to be impertinent . ''  He shook his head .  Interference -- fruitless interference .  I have a great idea that you do not design to be cruel , when the right moment occurs .  `` Mr. Weston would undoubtedly support me , if he were here , for he thinks exactly as I do on the subject .  Leave little Charles to my care .  `` Yes , I have , presently .  `` I should have been quite disappointed if I had not found you here STILL , '' said she repeatedly , with a strong emphasis on the word .  Mr. and Mrs. Palmer were of the party ; from the former , whom they had not seen before since their arrival in town , as he was careful to avoid the appearance of any attention to his mother-in-law , and therefore never came near her , they received no mark of recognition on their entrance .  He heard Frank Churchill next say , with a glance towards Jane , `` I will give it to her -- shall I ? ''  He sat musing a little while , and then said ,  `` And make her like myself . ''  `` Your indifference , however , towards that unfortunate girl -- I must say it , unpleasant to me as the discussion of such a subject may well be -- your indifference is no apology for your cruel neglect of her .  Adopt her , educate her . ''  He came with Mrs. Weston , to whom and to Highbury he seemed to take very cordially .  trumpeted the Elephant .  I think she would be so much pleased with his mind , that she would very soon see no deficiency in his manner . ''  Mrs. Dashwood would have interrupted her instantly with soothing tenderness , had not Elinor , who really wished to hear her sister 's unbiased opinion , by an eager sign , engaged her silence .  Jane desired me to do it , so I always do : and so I began to-day with my usual caution ; but no sooner did I come to the mention of her being unwell , than I burst out , quite frightened , with `Bless me !  Mrs. Smallridge , a most delightful woman ! -- A style of living almost equal to Maple Grove -- and as to the children , except the little Sucklings and little Bragges , there are not such elegant sweet children anywhere .  I saw you with the very person who had guided you in that year of misery .  They are some of my very old friends .  After a short pause , Mr Shepherd presumed to say --  Now she hoped for some beneficial change ; and , after a period of nothing-saying amongst the party , some of them did decide on going in quest of tea .  One Christmas Day , when I was grown up , I found myself at a loss for the `` one more '' story called for by some little children with whom I was spending the holiday .  One thing DID disturb her ; and of that she made her daily complaint .  What is right to be done can not be done too soon .  `` He spoke of its being out of repair . ''  I had imagined you were consulting me only as to the wording of it . ''  Mr. Knightley and Harriet ! -- It was an odd tete-a-tete ; but she was glad to see it. -- There had been a time when he would have scorned her as a companion , and turned from her with little ceremony .  That 's very like .  She longed for the serenity they might gradually introduce ; and on Mr. Perry 's coming in soon after dinner , with a disengaged hour to give her father , she lost no time ill hurrying into the shrubbery. -- There , with spirits freshened , and thoughts a little relieved , she had taken a few turns , when she saw Mr. Knightley passing through the garden door , and coming towards her. -- It was the first intimation of his being returned from London .  Such a companion for herself in the periods of anxiety and cheerlessness before her ! -- Such a partner in all those duties and cares to which time must be giving increase of melancholy !  We must not be nice and ask for all the virtues into the bargain .  `` I hope we shall see you at Barton , '' added her ladyship , `` as soon as you can conveniently leave town ; and we must put off the party to Whitwell till you return . ''  `` On this point we have been wretched .  You have drawn two pretty pictures ; but I think there may be a third -- a something between the do-nothing and the do-all .  `` I am sure , '' replied Elinor , with a smile , `` that his dearest friends could not be dissatisfied with such commendation as that .  ma'am , but there may be a difficulty .  It sometimes happens that a woman is handsomer at twenty-nine than she was ten years before ; and , generally speaking , if there has been neither ill health nor anxiety , it is a time of life at which scarcely any charm is lost .  What has Mr. Frank Churchill done , to make you suppose him such an unnatural creature ? ''  And so does poor Mrs. Weston '' -- with half a sigh and half a smile at her .  And there , beneath that farthest hill , which rises with such grandeur , is our cottage . ''  she was considerably worse from this reappearance of Mr. Elton .  It was a private resolution of hers , not communicated to him -- or at least not communicated in a way to carry conviction. -- Till yesterday , I know he said he was in the dark as to her plans .  `` Mrs. Ferrars , '' added he , lowering his voice to the tone becoming so important a subject , `` knows nothing about it at present , and I believe it will be best to keep it entirely concealed from her as long as may be. -- When the marriage takes place , I fear she must hear of it all . ''  As this was a favourite meal with Mrs. Jennings , it lasted a considerable time , and they were just setting themselves , after it , round the common working table , when a letter was delivered to Marianne , which she eagerly caught from the servant , and , turning of a death-like paleness , instantly ran out of the room .  I offer myself to you again with a heart even more your own than when you almost broke it , eight years and a half ago .  I think it admirable ; and , as far as I can answer for myself , shall be most happy -- It seems the only improvement that could be .  Bless me !  She exclaimed , however , with a very tolerable imitation of nature : --  Neither the dissipations of the past -- and she had lived very much in the world -- nor the restrictions of the present , neither sickness nor sorrow seemed to have closed her heart or ruined her spirits .  He laughed most immoderately .  And in a little while they saw an old Alligator , lying half buried in mud and slime , at the river 's edge .  Your wife has a claim to your politeness , to your respect , at least .  So far it is very true .  You were a large party in yourselves , and you wanted nothing beyond . ''  Ah !  Soon after this , upon Elinor 's leaving the room , `` Mamma , '' said Marianne , `` I have an alarm on the subject of illness which I can not conceal from you .  Blacky likes excitement .  Mrs. Jennings would have persuaded her , at its conclusion , to take some rest before her mother 's arrival , and allow HER to take her place by Marianne ; but Elinor had no sense of fatigue , no capability of sleep at that moment about her , and she was not to be kept away from her sister an unnecessary instant .  Pray , dear Miss Woodhouse , tell me what I ought to do . ''  This proves that he can leave the Churchills . ''  In the promotion of this object she was zealously active , as far as her ability reached ; and missed no opportunity of projecting weddings among all the young people of her acquaintance .  Lady Russell and Mrs Croft were very well pleased with each other : but the acquaintance which this visit began was fated not to proceed far at present ; for when it was returned , the Crofts announced themselves to be going away for a few weeks , to visit their connexions in the north of the county , and probably might not be at home again before Lady Russell would be removing to Bath .  `` Upon my word I never heard of it till this moment . ''  Harriet had not surmised her own danger , but the idea of it struck her forcibly .  The little Jackal ran away as fast as he could , and as he ran he called out , -- `` Thank you , Mr Alligator !  They were interrupted .  He is the most fearful of giving pain , of wounding expectation , and the most incapable of being selfish , of any body I ever saw .  Do not mimic her .  She does not depend upon his coming so much as I do : but she does not know the parties so well as I do .  -- But ever since we had the history of that day , I have been so fond of Mr .  It was the same , the very same man , with no difference but of dress .  This is great news , indeed .  As he mounted , he saw the doors of the castle open , and saw his friend standing on the threshold , waving his cap and beckoning to him .  said the little grey Nightingale .  It was the desire of appearing superior to other people .  Indeed , I think I may say that you can not , for your behaviour to him is perfectly cordial , and if THAT were your opinion , I am sure you could never be civil to him . ''  Their visitors , except those from Barton Park , were not many ; for , in spite of Sir John 's urgent entreaties that they would mix more in the neighbourhood , and repeated assurances of his carriage being always at their service , the independence of Mrs. Dashwood 's spirit overcame the wish of society for her children ; and she was resolute in declining to visit any family beyond the distance of a walk .  His spirits required support .  `` I had .  I can eat all I want and get back to the Green Forest before there is any danger that Farmer Brown 's boy or any one else I 'm afraid of will see me .  I have seen Mr. Ferrars two or three times in Harley Street , and am much pleased with him .  But I have done with expecting any course of steady reading from Emma .  Tell him I must see him again -- must speak to him instantly. -- I can not rest -- I shall not have a moment 's peace till this is explained -- some dreadful misapprehension or other. -- Oh go to him this moment . ''  I am no card-player . ''  `` This is an alliance which , whoever -- whatever your friends may be , must be agreeable to them , provided at least they have common sense ; and we are not to be addressing our conduct to fools .  Elton ! -- `Jane Fairfax and Jane Fairfax . '  I can never bear to think of you all there without me . ''  Have you , '' she continued , after a short silence , `` ever seen Mr. Willoughby since you left him at Barton ? ''  Then , and not till then , did Buster recover his usual good nature .  When the old white garraun saw the tailor sitting on the ground , he said , `` That 's the position he was in when he made the hole for me , that I could n't get out of , when I went down into it .  `` Yes , Frank came over this morning , just to ask us how we did . ''  no .  How mortifying to feel that it was so !  > From you , from my home , I shall never again have the smallest incitement to move ; and if I do mix in other society , it will be only to shew that my spirit is humbled , my heart amended , and that I can practise the civilities , the lesser duties of life , with gentleness and forbearance .  Under leaves so green A happy blossom Hears you sobbing , sobbing , Pretty , pretty robin , Near my bosom .  She was his object , and every body must perceive it .  Oh !  `` Certainly , he is not like Mr. Knightley .  I hope we shall have many sweet little concerts together .  `` Perhaps , '' said Elinor , `` thirty-five and seventeen had better not have any thing to do with matrimony together .  Well , Mrs. Weston , you have prevailed , I hope , and these ladies will oblige us . ''  Still the woman hesitated ; but at last she said , timidly , `` It is not much to tell , father , only this , that it is twenty years since my sister-in-law and I came to live together in the house ; we have brought up our families here ; and in all the twenty years there has never been a cross word between us , or a look that was less than kind . ''  The quietness of the game made it particularly eligible for Mr. Woodhouse , who had often been distressed by the more animated sort , which Mr. Weston had occasionally introduced , and who now sat happily occupied in lamenting , with tender melancholy , over the departure of the `` poor little boys , '' or in fondly pointing out , as he took up any stray letter near him , how beautifully Emma had written it .  But Colonel , where have you been to since we parted ?  It seemed as if Farmer Brown 's boy never would come out , but at last he did .  Neither father nor mother could promote , and the daughter could not endure it .  Oh !  I am sure you must have been struck by his awkward look and abrupt manner , and the uncouthness of a voice which I heard to be wholly unmodulated as I stood here . ''  Emma waited the result with impatience , but not without strong hopes .  With him it was most unnatural .  And can He who smiles on all Hear the wren with sorrows small , Hear the small bird 's grief and care , Hear the woes that infants bear -- And not sit beside the next , Pouring pity in their breast , And not sit the cradle near , Weeping tear on infant 's tear ?  Elinor , who had now been for some time reflecting on the propriety or impropriety of speedily hazarding her narration , without feeling at all nearer decision than at first , heard this ; and perceiving that as reflection did nothing , resolution must do all , soon found herself leading to the fact .  There 's nothing quite at all like it To spoil a pleasant day .  The less worthy females were to come in the evening , with Miss Bates , Miss Fairfax , and Miss Smith ; but already , at dinner , they were too numerous for any subject of conversation to be general ; and , while politics and Mr. Elton were talked over , Emma could fairly surrender all her attention to the pleasantness of her neighbour .  `` My dear friend , '' cried Lucy , as soon as they were by themselves , `` I come to talk to you of my happiness .  Happily , it was now time to be gone .  Mrs. Elton had received notice of it that morning , and was in raptures .  I knew that we should either go to the bottom together , or that she would be the making of me ; and I never had two days of foul weather all the time I was at sea in her ; and after taking privateers enough to be very entertaining , I had the good luck in my passage home the next autumn , to fall in with the very French frigate I wanted .  Surprise was the strongest emotion raised by their appearance ; but Anne was really glad to see them ; and the others were not so sorry but that they could put on a decent air of welcome ; and as soon as it became clear that these , their nearest relations , were not arrived with an views of accommodation in that house , Sir Walter and Elizabeth were able to rise in cordiality , and do the honours of it very well .  `` Well , '' said Anne , `` I certainly am proud , too proud to enjoy a welcome which depends so entirely upon place . ''  Little Joe sat down on the bank and prepared to enjoy his breakfast .  `` Lady Dalrymple , Lady Dalrymple , '' was the rejoicing sound ; and with all the eagerness compatible with anxious elegance , Sir Walter and his two ladies stepped forward to meet her .  I am sure they will be married very soon , for he has got a lock of her hair . ''  She was short and plump , had a very pretty face , and the finest expression of good humour in it that could possibly be .  `` What is it my dear friend ?  I am particularly glad to see and shake hands with you -- and to give you joy in person . ''  How little did I then think that the very first news I should hear from Mrs. Smith , when I next came into the country , would be that Barton cottage was taken : and I felt an immediate satisfaction and interest in the event , which nothing but a kind of prescience of what happiness I should experience from it , can account for .  Perhaps to Hartfield , perhaps to the Abbey Mill , perhaps into his woods. -- Miss Woodhouse , this is not like our friend Knightley ! -- Can you explain it ? ''  The old Alligator , underneath his fig pile , thought , -- `` Bother the suspicious little Jackal !  -- '' At a watering-place , or in a common London acquaintance , it was difficult to decide on such points .  This was the season of happiness to Marianne .  In the gayest and happiest spirits she set forward with her father ; not always listening , but always agreeing to what he said ; and , whether in speech or silence , conniving at the comfortable persuasion of his being obliged to go to Randalls every day , or poor Mrs. Weston would be disappointed .  It is to tenfold life , to love , to peace , and raptures holy : Unseen descending , weigh my light wings upon balmy flowers : And court the fair eyed dew , to take me to her shining tent The weeping virgin , trembling kneels before the risen sun .  I do not mean to justify myself , but at the same time can not leave you to suppose that I have nothing to urge -- that because she was injured she was irreproachable , and because I was a libertine , SHE must be a saint .  He was awake even before jolly , round , red Mr. Sun thought it was time to get up , and he was all ready to start for the Old Pasture when the first Jolly Little Sunbeams came dancing across the Green Meadows .  do not you know who Miss Williams is ?  The very day of Mr. Elton 's going to London produced a fresh occasion for Emma 's services towards her friend .  She meant to avoid any such alteration of manners as might provoke a remonstrance on his side .  Poor man !  I must love him ; and now that I am satisfied on one point , the one material point , I am sincerely anxious for its all turning out well , and ready to hope that it may .  They were wretched comforters for one another . ''  Even now , we sometimes do that with the songs of David in our churches .  It was a concern which brought just employment enough .  Let those who would be happy be firm .  The disgrace of his first marriage might , perhaps , as there was no reason to suppose it perpetuated by offspring , have been got over , had he not done worse ; but he had , as by the accustomary intervention of kind friends , they had been informed , spoken most disrespectfully of them all , most slightingly and contemptuously of the very blood he belonged to , and the honours which were hereafter to be his own .  Do n't palm all your abuses of languages upon me . ''  We can not part . ''  The like reserve prevailed on other topics .  Oh the trembling fear !  Mr. Perry might have reason to regret the alteration , but nobody else could . ''  She owned that , considering every thing , she was not absolutely without inclination for the party .  `` Indeed ! ''  `` Mrs. Ferrars has never yet mentioned Edward 's name , which does not surprise us ; but , to our great astonishment , not a line has been received from him on the occasion .  That some kind of engagement had subsisted between Willoughby and Marianne she could not doubt , and that Willoughby was weary of it , seemed equally clear ; for however Marianne might still feed her own wishes , SHE could not attribute such behaviour to mistake or misapprehension of any kind .  Doubtless it was so , and she could take no revenge , for he was not altered , or not for the worse .  Emma learned to be rather glad that there had been such a meeting .  `` 'See , all my leaves are dark crimson .  It would be almost beginning their life of civility again .  The keeper carried the beautiful little dog to the court and told the story , and from then on , Cherry was carefully treated , and had the best of everything .  It was a look , however , very well bestowed , for it relieved her own feelings , and gave no intelligence to him .  I should never deserve her confidence again , after forcing from her a confession of what is meant at present to be unacknowledged to any one .  It was evident that the report concerning her had spread , and a short pause succeeded , which seemed to ensure that it would now spread farther .  cried Margaret , `` how happy I should be !  You see he was n't well enough acquainted with Buster to know that Buster is quite as smart as he is , and perhaps a little bit smarter .  THE LITTLE YELLOW TULIP Once there was a little yellow Tulip , and she lived down in a little dark house under the ground .  Her parting look was grateful -- and her parting words , `` Oh !  Her ideas only varied as to the how much .  Vanity was the beginning and the end of Sir Walter Elliot 's character ; vanity of person and of situation .  _Page 45._ ] Reddy Fox rolled his lips back in an unpleasant grin .  One says those sort of things , of course , without any idea of a serious meaning .  With the size and furniture of the house Mrs. Dashwood was upon the whole well satisfied ; for though her former style of life rendered many additions to the latter indispensable , yet to add and improve was a delight to her ; and she had at this time ready money enough to supply all that was wanted of greater elegance to the apartments .  She had no demands on her father or sister , and her consequence was just enough increased by their handsome drawing-rooms .  `` Not at all , '' cried he ; `` I am much obliged to you for it .  As for Marianne , on the pangs which so unhappy a meeting must already have given her , and on those still more severe which might await her in its probable consequence , she could not reflect without the deepest concern .  When we talked about him , it was as clear as possible . ''  All his wishes centered in domestic comfort and the quiet of private life .  That she was really ill was very certain ; he had declared himself convinced of it , at Randalls .  `` I will not trust to THAT , '' retreating to her own room .  `` A mighty concession indeed !  But , on the other hand , she could not admit herself to be unhappy , nor , after the first morning , to be less disposed for employment than usual ; she was still busy and cheerful ; and , pleasing as he was , she could yet imagine him to have faults ; and farther , though thinking of him so much , and , as she sat drawing or working , forming a thousand amusing schemes for the progress and close of their attachment , fancying interesting dialogues , and inventing elegant letters ; the conclusion of every imaginary declaration on his side was that she _refused_ _him_ .  I have no pleasure in seeing my friends , unless I can believe myself fit to be seen . ''  Then she ran as fast as she could till she came to her own little farmhouse , and she went in and locked the door with the big key .  I only know that I never yet heard her admit any instance of a second attachment 's being pardonable . ''  Perhaps you have seen it .  Harriet could not very soon give an intelligible account .  They are not at all the less written you know , because you divide them .  yes , extremely well ; that is , I do not believe many people are acquainted with him , because Combe Magna is so far off ; but they all think him extremely agreeable I assure you .  I did not think Charles would have been so unfeeling .  Her many beginnings were displayed .  `` It wasn't cut off with a knife ; it was bitten off ! ''  Marianne here burst forth with indignation --  It smelt so good that it went to the little Country Mouse 's head .  He was exactly formed to engage Marianne 's heart , for with all this , he joined not only a captivating person , but a natural ardour of mind which was now roused and increased by the example of her own , and which recommended him to her affection beyond every thing else .  Anne hoped she had outlived the age of blushing ; but the age of emotion she certainly had not .  Time passed on .  run !  Elinor 's office was a painful one. -- She was going to remove what she really believed to be her sister 's chief consolation , -- to give such particulars of Edward as she feared would ruin him for ever in her good opinion , -and to make Marianne , by a resemblance in their situations , which to HER fancy would seem strong , feel all her own disappointment over again .  And when the Philistine looked about and saw David , he disdained him , for David was but a boy , and ruddy , and of a fair countenance .  Worse and worse .  I have a garden ! ''  At the end of that period , Lady Russell 's politeness could repose no longer , and the fainter self-threatenings of the past became in a decided tone , `` I must call on Mrs Croft ; I really must call upon her soon .  `` Who are you , and whither are you going ? ''  CHAPTER 31  `` Better than she ever used to do ? -- You see how my father and Mrs. Weston doat upon her . ''  `` But then , to be an old maid at last , like Miss Bates ! ''  She is loveliness itself .  Mrs. Weston , I am not to be talked out of my dislike of Harriet Smith , or my dread of its doing them both harm . ''  `` We thought you were to bring them . ''  The housekeeper declared she knew nothing of my being expected. -- Very extraordinary ! -- And nobody knew at all which way he was gone .  Having now said enough to make his poverty clear , and to do away the necessity of buying a pair of ear-rings for each of his sisters , in his next visit at Gray 's his thoughts took a cheerfuller turn , and he began to congratulate Elinor on having such a friend as Mrs. Jennings .  Relate only what in your conscience you think necessary for me to hear . ''  She had already repeated her own history to Elinor three or four times ; and had Elinor 's memory been equal to her means of improvement , she might have known very early in their acquaintance all the particulars of Mr. Jenning 's last illness , and what he said to his wife a few minutes before he died .  .  Then they thought they were safe , and they turned aside into a vacant castle , by the road , and sat down to a banquet , hanging the stolen harp on the wall .  That Lucy was disposed to be jealous of her appeared very probable : it was plain that Edward had always spoken highly in her praise , not merely from Lucy 's assertion , but from her venturing to trust her on so short a personal acquaintance , with a secret so confessedly and evidently important .  I can safely say that he has never gave me one moment 's alarm on that account from the first . ''  `` Frowning , frowning night , O'er this desert bright Let thy moon arise , While I close my eyes . ''  Mrs. Elton was very much disappointed .  Suppose I were to be seized of a sudden in some dreadful way , and not able to ring the bell !  Once more he yawned , and slowly got to his feet and shook himself .  Emma smiled and answered -- '' My visit was of use to the nervous part of her complaint , I hope ; but not even I can charm away a sore throat ; it is a most severe cold indeed .  `` Yes , sometimes he can . ''  One 's fortune , as your mother justly says , is NOT one 's own .  This must not be . ''  I could change my shoes , you know , the moment I got home ; and it is not the sort of thing that gives me cold . ''  `` He will have every body 's wishes for his happiness . ''  was safely delivered of a son and heir ; a very interesting and satisfactory paragraph , at least to all those intimate connections who knew it before .  I can not be forced into genius and eloquence . ''  A little farther on they heard some bullfrogs , in a swamp .  I know that such a girl as Harriet is exactly what every man delights in -- what at once bewitches his senses and satisfies his judgment .  Situated as we are with Lady Dalrymple , cousins , we ought to be very careful not to embarrass her with acquaintance she might not approve .  Good bye , -- God bless you ! ''  Emma could not have desired a more spirited rejection of Mr. Martin 's prose .  But about the third day , while Margery was stooping over the radishes , she saw something very , very small and green , peeping above ground , where the lettuce was planted .  `` I must take leave to observe , Sir Walter , '' said Mr Shepherd one morning at Kellynch Hall , as he laid down the newspaper , `` that the present juncture is much in our favour .  I never met with her equal .  `` No , '' -- replied Emma -- quite confirmed by the depressed manner in which he still spoke -- '' I should like to take another turn .  Oh , he is far more fearful than you ! ''  To be sitting long after dinner , was a confinement that he could not endure .  It will be all to one a better match for your sister .  Elinor could not hear the declaration , nor witness its proofs without sometimes wondering whether her mother ever recollected Edward .  There had been the charm .  Elinor 's heart thanked her for such kindness towards Edward , though she could not forbear smiling at the form of it .  As Marianne 's affection for her mother was sincere , it must triumph with little difficulty , over the imaginary evils she had started .  She knew her sister 's temper .  how so ?  It was no wonder that a train of twenty young couple now walked after her to church .  Such things in general can not be too short . ''  She knew not that she had been the means of sending the owners of Cleveland away , in about seven days from the time of their arrival .  Her person was rather good ; her face not unpretty ; but neither feature , nor air , nor voice , nor manner , were elegant .  `` What nonsense ! ''  `` He is a rear admiral of the white .  That was to tease Margery , because she always wanted to know the big words she heard .  She was perfectly convinced of it .  As dinner was not to be ready in less than two hours from their arrival , Elinor determined to employ the interval in writing to her mother , and sat down for that purpose .  Um-m-m-m !  We must remember to let James know that the carriage will be wanted on Tuesday .  She liked to make up stories out of her own head , and sometimes she made verses .  This put him in such a bad temper that he grumbled and scolded all the way home .  She must tell you herself what she is -- yet not by word , for never was there a human creature who would so designedly suppress her own merit. -- Since I began this letter , which will be longer than I foresaw , I have heard from her. -- She gives a good account of her own health ; but as she never complains , I dare not depend .  Lucy continued .  But to go to school in a summer morn , -- Oh it drives all joy away !  Have not I some right to complain ?  he said ; and he sent them a Stork .  The Virgin started from her seat , & with a shriek , Fled back unhinderd till she came into the vales of Har  Her skin was very brown , but , from its transparency , her complexion was uncommonly brilliant ; her features were all good ; her smile was sweet and attractive ; and in her eyes , which were very dark , there was a life , a spirit , an eagerness , which could hardily be seen without delight .  Their wives and children and some few of their soldiers went with them , and they fled fast and far through the night , until they were a long way from the battlefield .  `` We are sure of excellent fires , '' continued he , `` and every thing in the greatest comfort .  There , take my arm ; that 's right ; I do not feel comfortable if I have not a woman there .  Common sense would have directed her to tell Harriet , that she must not allow herself to think of him , and that there were five hundred chances to one against his ever caring for her. -- '' But , with common sense , '' she added , `` I am afraid I have had little to do . ''  It must have been from attachment only , that she could be led to form the engagement .  At last , when he was almost ready to give up , he saw Buster Bear shuffling along towards the Laughing Brook .  While he was not obliged to say that he believed her to have been right in originally dividing them , he was ready to say almost everything else in her favour , and as for Mrs Smith , she had claims of various kinds to recommend her quickly and permanently .  To this day , in the beautiful city of Salt Lake , which grew out of that pioneer village , the little children are taught to love the sea gulls .  `` It is as well , perhaps , that I have not had the possibility .  It would be such a delight to have her picture ! ''  So , when he reached the Green Forest , he kept right on to the deepest , darkest , most lonesome part and crept under the thickest hemlock-tree he could find .  worse than cold-hearted !  It will be quite delightful , I declare !  `` I have not a fault to find with her person , '' he replied .  Emma 's sense of right however had decided it ; and besides the consideration of what was due to each brother , she had particular pleasure , from the circumstance of the late disagreement between Mr. Knightley and herself , in procuring him the proper invitation .  Do not be impatient , Emma ; it will all come out too soon . ''  She was always a very affable and free-spoken young lady , and very civil behaved .  Her mother was surprised , and Elinor again became uneasy .  `` I am sorry she is not well -- '' for Marianne had left the room on their arrival .  He took it quickly in his forepaws , and then he took it in his mouth , and then he ran away .  `` Very well .  My charge would be much more concise than her 's , and probably not much in the same spirit ; all that I have to recommend being comprised in , do not spoil them , and do not physic them . ''  What do you take his age to be ? '  `` I 'm not through with him yet . ''  Mrs. Weston looked surprized , and said , `` I did not know that he ever had any such plan . ''  If I could be sure of the rooms being thoroughly aired -- but is Mrs. Stokes to be trusted ?  So sudden ! -- You may guess , dear Miss Woodhouse , what a flurry it has thrown me in !  This meeting of the two parties proved highly satisfactory , and decided the whole business at once .  `` Emma ! ''  `` Who !  ( An ephah is about three pecks . )  Her caution was thrown away .  `` By the bye -- I have not wished you joy .  She could not be silent when such points were introduced , and she had neither shyness nor reserve in their discussion .  `` Oh !  You , whom she had known from an infant , whom she had seen grow up from a period when her notice was an honour , to have you now , in thoughtless spirits , and the pride of the moment , laugh at her , humble her -- and before her niece , too -- and before others , many of whom ( certainly _some_ , ) would be entirely guided by _your_ treatment of her. -- This is not pleasant to you , Emma -- and it is very far from pleasant to me ; but I must , I will , -- I will tell you truths while I can ; satisfied with proving myself your friend by very faithful counsel , and trusting that you will some time or other do me greater justice than you can do now . ''  On its being proposed , Anne offered her services , as usual ; and though her eyes would sometimes fill with tears as she sat at the instrument , she was extremely glad to be employed , and desired nothing in return but to be unobserved .  She could not flatter herself with any idea of blindness in his attachment to _her_ .  But Sir John did not sport long with the curiosity which he delighted to raise , for he had at least as much pleasure in telling the name , as Miss Steele had in hearing it .  But still , there certainly were a dreadful multitude of ugly women in Bath ; and as for the men !  `` I can believe it , '' said Elinor ; `` but unfortunately he did not feel the same . ''  with a heart pierced , wounded , almost broken !  But to be waiting so long in inaction , and waiting only for evil , had been dreadful .  Lord !  There is such perfect good-temper and good-will in Mr. Elton as one can not but value . ''  It was enough for her to feel .  She could now look forward to giving him that full and perfect confidence which her disposition was most ready to welcome as a duty .  Shocked as Captain Harville was , he brought senses and nerves that could be instantly useful ; and a look between him and his wife decided what was to be done .  The Crofts had placed themselves in lodgings in Gay Street , perfectly to Sir Walter 's satisfaction .  He is very little at Combe , I believe ; but if he were ever so much there , I do not think Mr. Palmer would visit him , for he is in the opposition , you know , and besides it is such a way off .  An ' Fox he tugged away Wid the great big hivy shtone , Thimpin ' his shoulders very bad As he wint in alone .  A Miss Hawkins -- that 's all I know .  Miss Bates , let Emma help you to a _little_ bit of tart -- a _very_ little bit .  No more is Emma .  It gave him a shudder , and he hesitated ; but at that moment he heard a distant clock strike .  What has it been but a system of hypocrisy and deceit , -- espionage , and treachery ? -- To come among us with professions of openness and simplicity ; and such a league in secret to judge us all ! -- Here have we been , the whole winter and spring , completely duped , fancying ourselves all on an equal footing of truth and honour , with two people in the midst of us who may have been carrying round , comparing and sitting in judgment on sentiments and words that were never meant for both to hear. -- They must take the consequence , if they have heard each other spoken of in a way not perfectly agreeable ! ''  He was thinking .  It was painful to look upon their deserted grounds , and still worse to anticipate the new hands they were to fall into ; and to escape the solitariness and the melancholy of so altered a village , and be out of the way when Admiral and Mrs Croft first arrived , she had determined to make her own absence from home begin when she must give up Anne .  Richard ? -- Oh !  You will have no business here. -- Let it stay , however , ' said she ; `give it houseroom till Colonel Campbell comes back .  `` Not five minutes to spare even for your friends Miss Fairfax and Miss Bates ?  `` Ah , well !  All that she could hope , was that Edward would not often expose her or himself to the distress of hearing Marianne 's mistaken warmth , nor to the repetition of any other part of the pain that had attended their recent meeting -- and this she had every reason to expect .  yes , perfectly. -- Why do you make a doubt of it ? ''  After waiting another moment --  Her eyes were towards Donwell as she walked , but she saw him not .  He snarled at Buster Bear and called him a thief and everything bad he could think of .  Sicily was happy and all things went well under the king , who was not Robert .  It used to help Louisa to be good to play this , and I think it may have helped make her the splendid woman she was afterward .  Elinor was again obliged to decline her invitation ; and by changing the subject , put a stop to her entreaties .  It was the voice of the Laughing Brook .  Nothing can be kinder than her behaviour ; and she can hardly do all this , without being aware of the expectation it raises . ''  It was by no means her object to have it believed that her sister was _not_ a fine lady ; perhaps there was want of spirit in the pretence of it ; -- and she was considering in what way she had best retract , when Mr. Weston went on .  Had he wished ever to see her again , he need not have waited till this time ; he would have done what she could not but believe that in his place she should have done long ago , when events had been early giving him the independence which alone had been wanting .  And I will own to you , ( I am sure it will be safe ) , that so far as our living with Mr. Churchill at Enscombe , it is settled .  Who is to dance ? ''  `` Oh !  She only attempted to say , `` How do you do ?  `` Ill , very ill -- that is , if a young lady can ever be allowed to look ill .  When the splendid wind came blowing and singing through the forest , it bent and rocked and swung the tops of the big trees , and murmured to them .  So he ran round and round the sugar-cane field , and as he ran he sang and shouted , and made a great hullabaloo .  `` Business , you know , may bring money , but friendship hardly ever does . ''  No coffee , I thank you , for me -- never take coffee. -- A little tea if you please , sir , by and bye , -- no hurry -- Oh !  cried Mrs. Jennings , as soon as she was gone , `` how it grieves me to see her !  `` Well !  Her heart was in a glow , and she feared her face might be as hot .  the gulls ! ''  `` I beg your pardon , my dear Miss Elliot , '' she cried , in her natural tone of cordiality , `` I beg your pardon for the short answers I have been giving you , but I have been uncertain what I ought to do .  She was a little shocked at the want of two drawing rooms , at the poor attempt at rout-cakes , and there being no ice in the Highbury card-parties .  The next morning brought Elinor a letter by the two-penny post from Lucy herself .  He only wanted to aggrandise and enrich himself ; and if Miss Woodhouse of Hartfield , the heiress of thirty thousand pounds , were not quite so easily obtained as he had fancied , he would soon try for Miss Somebody else with twenty , or with ten .  She was obliged to kneel down by the sofa , and remain there to satisfy her patient ; and thus they continued a few minutes , when , to her very great satisfaction , she heard some other person crossing the little vestibule .  She gave him a short account of her party and business at Lyme .  He has a most excellent mother .  `` He likes you .  Where did he live ?  `` You have heard , I suppose , '' said he with great solemnity , as soon as he was seated , `` of the very shocking discovery that took place under our roof yesterday . ''  Isn't that great news ?  Mr. Knightley suspected in Frank Churchill the determination of catching her eye -- he seemed watching her intently -- in vain , however , if it were so -- Jane passed between them into the hall , and looked at neither .  Anne did not shrink from it ; on the contrary , she truly felt as she said , in observing --  The Miss Steeles kept their station at the park , and were to quit it only with the rest of the family .  Chapter 21  `` Something for you , Margery , '' said her mother , with the look she had when something nice was happening .  It would be incompatible with what she owed to her father , and with what she felt for him .  I earnestly pressed his coming to us , and should not be surprised to see him walk in today or tomorrow , or any day . ''  They seemed more like cheerful , easy friends , than lovers .  and once Henry asked me for a knife , but I told him knives were only made for grandpapas .  `` Bread , Mammy , '' said Epaminondas ; `` Auntie gave it to me . ''  `` And then , he saved her life .  At first Little Joe did n't want to , but at last his curiosity got the better of his fear , and he agreed .  The sexton did not know that he had ever seen him before , but he looked long after him , wondering at his wildness and his haste .  And who but Mr. Knightley could know and bear with Mr. Woodhouse , so as to make such an arrangement desirable ! -- The difficulty of disposing of poor Mr. Woodhouse had been always felt in her husband 's plans and her own , for a marriage between Frank and Emma .  `` What does he mean , father ? ''  She is always so attentive to them ! ''  If it will be any satisfaction to you , however , to be told , that I believe his character to be in other respects irreproachable , I am ready to confess it .  `` As you are going farther on business , sir , I will take the opportunity of paying a visit , which must be paid some day or other , and therefore may as well be paid now .  But though Mrs. Ferrars DID come to see them , and always treated them with the make-believe of decent affection , they were never insulted by her real favour and preference .  `` To be sure , so it is .  There was no time for farther remark or explanation .  If the man had run for it , he could still have reached the castle , but , instead , he sat still and shouted for a horse .  He reads the Agricultural Reports , and some other books that lay in one of the window seats -- but he reads all _them_ to himself .  Pray call again as soon as possible , and explain the reason of my having expected this in vain .  And he ran away like the wind .  You were very bad with the measles ; that is , you would have been very bad , but for Perry 's great attention .  `` Yes ; he was not married when I knew him first . ''  Depend upon it , a man of six or seven-and-twenty can take care of himself . ''  Do you think -- -- '' `` Oh , '' said the little Jackal , `` you want my opinion ?  I bring a new proposal on the subject : -- a thought of my father 's , which waits only your approbation to be acted upon .  I was convinced there were two , and there is but one .  Anne could perfectly comprehend the exquisite relief , and was only the more inclined to wonder at the composure of her friend 's usual state of mind .  I will not apologize therefore for bringing it forward again . ''  `` I am extremely glad , indeed , '' cried Anne , `` particularly glad that this should happen ; and that of two sisters , who both deserve equally well , and who have always been such good friends , the pleasant prospect of one should not be dimming those of the other -- that they should be so equal in their prosperity and comfort .  Some scruples and some reluctance the widower-father may be supposed to have felt ; but as they were overcome by other considerations , the child was given up to the care and the wealth of the Churchills , and he had only his own comfort to seek , and his own situation to improve as he could .  He considered the blessing of beauty as inferior only to the blessing of a baronetcy ; and the Sir Walter Elliot , who united these gifts , was the constant object of his warmest respect and devotion .  On the day of their home-coming , there was a special service in the royal church , and even after the service was over for the people , the monks held prayers of thanksgiving and praise .  Do you really think it a bad thing ? -- why so ? ''  This seems to have been a day of general elucidation , for this very morning first unfolded it to us .  But through the crash and din came the voices of the Giant-Maidens , loudly chanting , -- `` We have turned the stone round ; Though weary the maidens , See what they have ground ! ''  A gentleman 's family is all that I should condition for . ''  The style of the visit , and the shortness of it , were then felt to be decisive .  Harriet , Mr. Elton , and Mr. Knightley , their own especial set , were the only persons invited to meet them ; -- the hours were to be early , as well as the numbers few ; Mr. Woodhouse 's habits and inclination being consulted in every thing .  `` The gulls are eating what the crickets have left !  The very next day however produced some proof of inspiration .  he said .  Perhaps he was , and then again perhaps he was n't .  `` Oh no ; as to leaving the little boy , '' both father and mother were in much too strong and recent alarm to bear the thought ; and Anne , in the joy of the escape , could not help adding her warm protestations to theirs .  He sought her in many lands , until one day , in a far eastern country , he found her sitting in a tent , by the side of an old , white-haired hermit .  [ Poems by William Blake 1789 ]  `` Yes , sir , I did indeed ; and I am very much obliged by your kind solicitude about me . ''  Her brother and sister came back delighted with their new acquaintance , and their visit in general .  He was moved to pity the Fir , who was so lowly and without envy of the other trees , and he resolved to help it .  `` Happy for her , to have such a mind as yours at hand !  `` I have been a good deal acquainted with him , '' replied Mrs Smith , gravely , `` but it seems worn out now .  Where the wound had been given , there must the cure be found if anywhere ; and Emma felt that , till she saw her in the way of cure , there could be no true peace for herself .  It was hardly right ; but it had been so strong an idea , that it would escape her , and his submission to all that she told , was a compliment to her penetration , which made it difficult for her to be quite certain that she ought to have held her tongue .  Far be it from me to repine at his doing so ; he had an undoubted right to dispose of his own property as he chose , but , in consequence of it , we have been obliged to make large purchases of linen , china , & c. to supply the place of what was taken away .  A very few days had passed after this adventure , when Harriet came one morning to Emma with a small parcel in her hand , and after sitting down and hesitating , thus began :  The disproportion in their fortune was nothing ; it did not give her a moment 's regret ; but to have no family to receive and estimate him properly , nothing of respectability , of harmony , of good will to offer in return for all the worth and all the prompt welcome which met her in his brothers and sisters , was a source of as lively pain as her mind could well be sensible of under circumstances of otherwise strong felicity .  In one point , I am sure , my dear cousin , '' ( he continued , speaking lower , though there was no one else in the room ) `` in one point , I am sure , we must feel alike .  Is she ill ? ''  Do you know it ? -- Cramer. -- And here are a new set of Irish melodies .  If only he had known that Buster could climb a tree !  Such a debasement on his !  Lucy is monstrous pretty , and so good humoured and agreeable !  But his sister stood far off , not seeming to watch , but really watching carefully to see what would happen to the baby .  Mrs. John Dashwood now installed herself mistress of Norland ; and her mother and sisters-in-law were degraded to the condition of visitors .  But I have just left Marianne in bed , and , I hope , almost asleep ; and as I think nothing will be of so much service to her as rest , if you will give me leave , I will drink the wine myself . ''  She could say nothing .  The gardens and shrubberies would be kept in almost as high order as they are now .  That was good common sense advice , but Little Joe just sniffed and went off declaring that he would get even with Buster Bear yet .  Sir John Middleton , who called on them every day for the first fortnight , and who was not in the habit of seeing much occupation at home , could not conceal his amazement on finding them always employed .  Oh , said I , Patty do not come with your bad news to me .  Whenever he was crossed , or could not have his own way instantly , he flew into a passion .  `` And you really are not engaged to him ! ''  She was the first to announce it to Mr. Knightley ; and exclaimed quite as much as was necessary , ( or , being acting a part , perhaps rather more , ) at the conduct of the Churchills , in keeping him away .  `` Yes , yes , I understand you .  There was n't water enough in it anywhere except down in the Smiling Pool , and that was on the Green Meadows , where Buster had never been known to go .  Wait until we see a fifth ! ''  He had called in Camden Place ; had called a second time , a third ; had been pointedly attentive .  IX LITTLE JOE OTTER HAS GREAT NEWS TO TELL Little Joe Otter was fairly bursting with excitement .  While you considered me as having sinned against Emma Woodhouse , I could deserve nothing from either .  Time did not compose her .  It was a most delightful reanimation of exhausted spirits .  `` What is the matter , sir ? -- Did you speak to me ? ''  What am I to do ? ''  Soon they sent a third messenger to Jove , and begged that they might have a better king , -- a king who was worth while .  When his mother came to bed he would cry , `` Roll me around !  Woodhouse ? -- I am so glad. -- Quite out of my power. -- Such a happy little circle as you find us here. -- Yes , indeed. -- Charming young man ! -- that is -- so very friendly ; I mean good Mr .  You are very fond of bending little minds ; but where little minds belong to rich people in authority , I think they have a knack of swelling out , till they are quite as unmanageable as great ones .  There is no reason on earth why Mr. Edward and Lucy should not marry ; for I am sure Mrs. Ferrars may afford to do very well by her son , and though Lucy has next to nothing herself , she knows better than any body how to make the most of every thing ; I dare say , if Mrs. Ferrars would only allow him five hundred a-year , she would make as good an appearance with it as any body else would with eight .  `` Well , as you are resolved to go , I wish you a good journey .  THEL  She returned just in time to join the others as they quitted the house , on an excursion through its more immediate premises ; and the rest of the morning was easily whiled away , in lounging round the kitchen garden , examining the bloom upon its walls , and listening to the gardener 's lamentations upon blights , in dawdling through the green-house , where the loss of her favourite plants , unwarily exposed , and nipped by the lingering frost , raised the laughter of Charlotte , -- and in visiting her poultry-yard , where , in the disappointed hopes of her dairy-maid , by hens forsaking their nests , or being stolen by a fox , or in the rapid decrease of a promising young brood , she found fresh sources of merriment .  It was our darling wish that you might be attached to each other -- and we were persuaded that it was so. -- Imagine what we have been feeling on your account . ''  `` One ought to use the same caution , perhaps , in judging of the conduct of any one individual of any one family ; but Enscombe , I believe , certainly must not be judged by general rules : _she_ is so very unreasonable ; and every thing gives way to her . ''  When it came to such a pitch as this , she was not able to refrain from a start , or a heavy sigh , or even from walking about the room for a few seconds -- and the only source whence any thing like consolation or composure could be drawn , was in the resolution of her own better conduct , and the hope that , however inferior in spirit and gaiety might be the following and every future winter of her life to the past , it would yet find her more rational , more acquainted with herself , and leave her less to regret when it were gone .  When the angel had faded from sight , the hermit bowed his head again , but this time with great sorrow and fear .  I may not have convinced you perhaps , but I am perfectly convinced myself that Mr. Dixon is a principal in the business . ''  Elinor now found the difference between the expectation of an unpleasant event , however certain the mind may be told to consider it , and certainty itself .  exclaimed Elinor .  A few minutes more spent in the same kind of effusion , concluded his visit ; and with repeated assurances to his sisters that he really believed there was no material danger in Fanny 's indisposition , and that they need not therefore be very uneasy about it , he went away ; leaving the three ladies unanimous in their sentiments on the present occasion , as far at least as it regarded Mrs. Ferrars 's conduct , the Dashwoods ' , and Edward 's .  But I should like to know why , at that time of his life , he should slight my father 's acquaintance as he did .  She felt its application to herself , felt it in a nervous thrill all over her ; and at the same moment that her eyes instinctively glanced towards the distant table , Captain Wentworth 's pen ceased to move , his head was raised , pausing , listening , and he turned round the next instant to give a look , one quick , conscious look at her .  It would be the greatest pleasure to them , if you could allow me to attend you there .  I thought him very plain at first , but I do not think him so plain now .  `` I will not say that I am disappointed , my dear sister , '' said John , as they were walking together one morning before the gates of Delaford House , `` THAT would be saying too much , for certainly you have been one of the most fortunate young women in the world , as it is .  `` Then , '' said the Rabbit , `` I will tie this end of my long rope to you , and I will run away and tie the other end round my cow , and when I am ready I will beat my big drum .  The weather was not tempting enough to draw the two others from their pencil and their book , in spite of Marianne 's declaration that the day would be lastingly fair , and that every threatening cloud would be drawn off from their hills ; and the two girls set off together .  Yes , Sir , Buster felt that he was shamed in the eyes of his neighbors , and he wanted nothing so much as to get away by himself , where no one could see him , and try to get rid of that dreadful pail .  `` To be sure , '' said Harriet , in a mortified voice , `` he is not so genteel as real gentlemen . ''  I perfectly remember it. -- Stop ; Mr. Knightley was standing just here , was not he ?  This would not do ; she immediately stopped , under pretence of having some alteration to make in the lacing of her half-boot , and stooping down in complete occupation of the footpath , begged them to have the goodness to walk on , and she would follow in half a minute .  `` Oh !  `` I believe , '' said Little Joe as he wiped tears of laughter from his eyes , `` that Grandfather Frog is right , and that the best thing I can do is to make friends with Buster Bear .  But his coming for me as he did , with such active , such ready friendship , is enough to prove him one of the worthiest of men . ''  CHAPTER 41  `` Let 's go see what he is doing , '' said Billy Mink .  She was sure it was very ill -- it cried , and fretted , and was all over pimples .  `` Yes -- ( rather hesitatingly ) -- I believe I do . ''  `` No , I thank you : no , certainly not .  Be observant of him .  `` If he is not here by the end of the week , I shall go after him . ''  `` No , indeed -- _we_ are not at all in a bad air .  As you will do it , it will indeed , to use your own words , be an exquisite possession . ''  `` For me ! ''  Her own happiness , and her own spirits , were at least very certain ; and she joined Mrs. Jennings most heartily in her expectation of their being all comfortably together in Delaford Parsonage before Michaelmas .  MY KINGDOM The little Louisa I told you about , who wrote verses and stories in her diary , used to like to play that she was a princess , and that her kingdom was her own mind .  The rapid decay , the early death of a girl so young , so lovely as Marianne , must have struck a less interested person with concern .  `` Then it would not be so strong a sense .  I wish nature had made such hearts as yours more common , but I have lived three-and-twenty years in the world , and have seen none like it .  A discovery took place , '' -- here he hesitated and looked down. -- '' Mrs .  Who can be in doubt of what followed ?  And he was stirred with anger .  Now they look abroad to see , Now return and weep for me . ''  I got more acquainted with him last Monday than ever I did before .  She wished him to speak , but he would not .  Emma was just describing the nature of her friend 's complaint ; -- `` a throat very much inflamed , with a great deal of heat about her , a quick , low pulse , & c. and she was sorry to find from Mrs. Goddard that Harriet was liable to very bad sore-throats , and had often alarmed her with them . ''  He was quite as undaunted and as lively as ever ; and , after seeing him , Emma thus moralised to herself : --  Miss Steele was going to reply on the same subject , but the approach of her own party made another more necessary .  Colonel Brandon alone , of all the party , heard her without being in raptures .  They had met .  I think you littlest ones will like it ; I do .  The latter part of the story had wholly faded from my memory , so that I `` made up '' to suit the tastes of my audience .  `` I know it -- I know it , '' cried her mother .  You see , Buster walked very softly .  she looks very bad. -- No wonder .  `` Very good humoured , unaffected girls , indeed , '' said Mrs Croft , in a tone of calmer praise , such as made Anne suspect that her keener powers might not consider either of them as quite worthy of her brother ; `` and a very respectable family .  It seems an impossibility ! -- You can not mean to say , that Harriet Smith has accepted Robert Martin .  He declares himself , that coming to Lyme for a month , did him more good than all the medicine he took ; and , that being by the sea , always makes him feel young again .  VOLUME III  Then do tell me what he was at that time of life .  one ca n't repeat such kind of things you know ) -- she told him directly , she had not the least mind in the world to be off , for she could live with him upon a trifle , and how little so ever he might have , she should be very glad to have it all , you know , or something of the kind .  `` My being charming , Harriet , is not quite enough to induce me to marry ; I must find other people charming -- one other person at least .  Who could have seen through such thick-headed nonsense ?  He did not believe there was a bolder rider in England !  `` Why , in the cage , of course , '' roared the Tiger .  `` Because you tried to steal my acorn , '' said the little Red Man .  He gave her a letter , it was from Frank , and to herself ; he had met with it in his way , and had taken the liberty of opening it .  In spite of the answer , therefore , she ordered the carriage , and drove to Mrs. Bates 's , in the hope that Jane would be induced to join her -- but it would not do ; -- Miss Bates came to the carriage door , all gratitude , and agreeing with her most earnestly in thinking an airing might be of the greatest service -- and every thing that message could do was tried -- but all in vain .  Twice did I leave them purposely together in the course of the last morning , and each time did he most unaccountably follow me out of the room .  `` I shall not scold you .  Mary had acquired a little artificial importance , by becoming Mrs Charles Musgrove ; but Anne , with an elegance of mind and sweetness of character , which must have placed her high with any people of real understanding , was nobody with either father or sister ; her word had no weight , her convenience was always to give way -- she was only Anne .  `` Such attentions as Mrs. Elton 's , I should have imagined , would rather disgust than gratify Miss Fairfax .  Astonishment , that would have been as painful as it was strong , had not an immediate disbelief of the assertion attended it .  Mine is a misery which nothing can do away . ''  A circumstance rather unlucky occurred .  The sharp eyes of Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow saw him .  Mr. Woodhouse had been safely seated long enough to give the history of it , besides all the history of his own and Isabella 's coming , and of Emma 's being to follow , and had indeed just got to the end of his satisfaction that James should come and see his daughter , when the others appeared , and Mrs. Weston , who had been almost wholly engrossed by her attentions to him , was able to turn away and welcome her dear Emma .  Three long years passed .  The affection of the whole family , the warm attachment of Miss Campbell in particular , was the more honourable to each party from the circumstance of Jane 's decided superiority both in beauty and acquirements .  how easy for those , who have no sorrow of their own to talk of exertion !  If they marry , they will be sure of doing well , and if they do not , they may all live very comfortably together on the interest of ten thousand pounds . ''  That was all prior to my coming to Bath .  The disguise , equivocation , mystery , so hateful to her to practise , might soon be over .  They are not at all nice children , in my opinion ; but Mrs Musgrove seems to like them quite as well , if not better , than her grandchildren .  By and by he began talking to himself again .  Oh , is n't it lovely ! ''  Where did you hear it ? ''  He looked up the Laughing Brook and down the Laughing Brook and this way and that way , but no one was to be seen .  Even you , used as you are to great sums , would hardly believe that so much could be given to a young person like Jane . ''  said the little Jackal , vacantly .  When the four little sisters had finished their lessons , and had helped their mother wash up and sew , they used to go to the big barn to play ; and the best play of all was theatricals .  Many times , during the three years , the king , who had his face and voice , had called him to himself , when none else could hear , and had asked him the one question , `` Who art thou ? ''  He had enquired after her , she found , particularly ; had expressed his hope of Miss Elliot 's not being the worse for her exertions , and had spoken of those exertions as great .  It grew louder .  He was so intent on looking behind him to see if Buster was coming that he did n't see Buster waiting there until he spoke .  But while they fought in one place new armies of crickets marched down the mountain-sides and attacked the fields in other places .  On Edward 's side , more particularly , there was a deficiency of all that a lover ought to look and say on such an occasion .  She has not the open temper which a man would wish for in a wife . ''  Very , very happy were both Elizabeth and Anne Elliot as they walked in .  I mean never to be later in rising than six , and from that time till dinner I shall divide every moment between music and reading .  `` Upon my soul it is , '' -- was his answer , with a warmth which brought all the former Willoughby to her remembrance , and in spite of herself made her think him sincere .  His visit was duly paid .  There was no want of likeness , she had been fortunate in the attitude , and as she meant to throw in a little improvement to the figure , to give a little more height , and considerably more elegance , she had great confidence of its being in every way a pretty drawing at last , and of its filling its destined place with credit to them both -- a standing memorial of the beauty of one , the skill of the other , and the friendship of both ; with as many other agreeable associations as Mr. Elton 's very promising attachment was likely to add .  He looked at her with a smile , and a little motion of the head , which expressed , `` Come to me , I have something to say ; '' and the unaffected , easy kindness of manner which denoted the feelings of an older acquaintance than he really was , strongly enforced the invitation .  She wished he could love a ballroom better , and could like Frank Churchill better. -- He seemed often observing her .  But the idea of any thing to be done in a _moment_ , was increasing , not lessening , Mr. Woodhouse 's agitation .  you were perfectly right !  One set might recommend their all removing to Donwell , and leaving Hartfield for the John Knightleys ; and another might predict disagreements among their servants ; but yet , upon the whole , there was no serious objection raised , except in one habitation , the Vicarage. -- There , the surprize was not softened by any satisfaction .  I hardly know how it has happened ; a little , perhaps , from that wickedness on my side which was prone to take disgust towards a girl so idolized and so cried up as she always was , by her aunt and grandmother , and all their set .  `` And has it indeed been spoken of ? ''  CHAPTER III  So far from hence !  But Marianne seemed hardly to hear her , and on Mrs. Jenning 's entrance , escaped with the precious card .  He had not the power of accepting it .  And every day the little Red Man went away through the tiny door , and did not come back till afternoon .  In such employments as these they were interrupted soon after breakfast the next day by the entrance of their landlord , who called to welcome them to Barton , and to offer them every accommodation from his own house and garden in which theirs might at present be deficient .  run !  The danger , however , was at present so unperceived , that they did not by any means rank as misfortunes with her .  Pretty soon the Whale found himself sliding toward the land .  The weather was most favourable for her ; though Christmas Day , she could not go to church .  The loss of the ball -- the loss of the young man -- and all that the young man might be feeling ! -- It was too wretched ! -- Such a delightful evening as it would have been ! -- Every body so happy !  Come forth worm and the silent valley , to thy pensive queen .  But stranger things have happened ; and when we cease to care for each other as we do now , it will be the means of confirming us in that sort of true disinterested friendship which I can already look forward to with pleasure . ''  Let us wait , therefore , for this letter .  She seemed to propose shewing no agitation , or disappointment , or peculiar concern in the discovery .  He cuffed at it and pulled at it , all the time growling angrily .  This was the conclusion of the first series of reflection .  She always watched them as long as she could , delighted to fancy she understood what they might be talking of , as they walked along in happy independence , or equally delighted to see the Admiral 's hearty shake of the hand when he encountered an old friend , and observe their eagerness of conversation when occasionally forming into a little knot of the navy , Mrs Croft looking as intelligent and keen as any of the officers around her .  I am very little able -- Have you a chair , ma'am ?  Her affection for me deserved better treatment , and I often , with great self-reproach , recall the tenderness which , for a very short time , had the power of creating any return .  `` How long has this been known to you , Elinor ?  -- She was afraid she had done her nothing but disservice. -- It was true that she had not to charge herself , in this instance as in the former , with being the sole and original author of the mischief ; with having suggested such feelings as might otherwise never have entered Harriet 's imagination ; for Harriet had acknowledged her admiration and preference of Frank Churchill before she had ever given her a hint on the subject ; but she felt completely guilty of having encouraged what she might have repressed .  Mutual enquiries on common subjects passed : neither of them , probably , much the wiser for what they heard , and Anne continuing fully sensible of his being less at ease than formerly .  What should a young fellow like you do ashore for half a year together ?  What the anvil ?  Mr. Woodhouse had been exceedingly well amused .  There is no admiration between them , I do assure you ; and the appearances which have caught you , have arisen from some peculiar circumstances -- feelings rather of a totally different nature -- it is impossible exactly to explain : -- there is a good deal of nonsense in it -- but the part which is capable of being communicated , which is sense , is , that they are as far from any attachment or admiration for one another , as any two beings in the world can be .  Either of them would , in all probability , make him an affectionate , good-humoured wife .  I wore my sword because the Tortoise came wearing his coat of mail . ''  She had only navy lists and newspapers for her authority , but she could not doubt his being rich ; and , in favour of his constancy , she had no reason to believe him married .  I can easily suppose that his age may appear much greater to you than to my mother ; but you can hardly deceive yourself as to his having the use of his limbs ! ''  I can not help thinking , in short , that means might have been found .  It was lower and quicker than ever !  They knew not each other 's opinion , either its constancy or its change , on the one leading point of Anne 's conduct , for the subject was never alluded to ; but Anne , at seven-and-twenty , thought very differently from what she had been made to think at nineteen .  `` Who will plant this wheat ? ''  If he had but my picture , he says he should be easy .  Half the sum of attraction , on either side , might have been enough , for he had nothing to do , and she had hardly anybody to love ; but the encounter of such lavish recommendations could not fail .  Depend upon it he had encouragement . ''  asked the Elephant .  Dear Father , help me with the love That casteth out my fear , Teach me to lean on Thee , and feel That Thou art very near , That no temptation is unseen , No childish grief too small , Since Thou , with patience infinite , Doth soothe and comfort all .  `` I have hardly seen you since our day at Lyme .  Jealousy of Mr Elliot had been the retarding weight , the doubt , the torment .  She merely observed that he was perfectly good humoured and friendly .  The heat overcame me . ''  `` But , my dear papa , it is supposed to be summer ; a warm day in summer .  They were sneering and negligent .  All was safe and prosperous ; and as the removal of one solicitude generally makes way for another , Emma , being now certain of her ball , began to adopt as the next vexation Mr. Knightley 's provoking indifference about it .  `` I hope so -- for at that time I was a fool . ''  `` At Delaford , she will be within an easy distance of me , '' added Mrs. Dashwood , `` even if I remain at Barton ; and in all probability , -- for I hear it is a large village , -- indeed there certainly MUST be some small house or cottage close by , that would suit us quite as well as our present situation . ''  `` Thank you , thank you , my own sweet little friend .  While he lived , it must be only an engagement ; but she flattered herself , that if divested of the danger of drawing her away , it might become an increase of comfort to him. -- How to do her best by Harriet , was of more difficult decision ; -- how to spare her from any unnecessary pain ; how to make her any possible atonement ; how to appear least her enemy ? -- On these subjects , her perplexity and distress were very great -- and her mind had to pass again and again through every bitter reproach and sorrowful regret that had ever surrounded it. -- She could only resolve at last , that she would still avoid a meeting with her , and communicate all that need be told by letter ; that it would be inexpressibly desirable to have her removed just now for a time from Highbury , and -- indulging in one scheme more -- nearly resolve , that it might be practicable to get an invitation for her to Brunswick Square. -- Isabella had been pleased with Harriet ; and a few weeks spent in London must give her some amusement. -- She did not think it in Harriet 's nature to escape being benefited by novelty and variety , by the streets , the shops , and the children. -- At any rate , it would be a proof of attention and kindness in herself , from whom every thing was due ; a separation for the present ; an averting of the evil day , when they must all be together again .  `` It was not fit that you should then know how much I was the reverse ! ''  Now , however , his good-natured , honest , stupid soul , full of indignation against me , and concern for your sister , could not resist the temptation of telling me what he knew ought to -- though probably he did not think it WOULD -- vex me horridly .  Marianne entered the house with a heart swelling with emotion from the consciousness of being only eighty miles from Barton , and not thirty from Combe Magna ; and before she had been five minutes within its walls , while the others were busily helping Charlotte to show her child to the housekeeper , she quitted it again , stealing away through the winding shrubberies , now just beginning to be in beauty , to gain a distant eminence ; where , from its Grecian temple , her eye , wandering over a wide tract of country to the south-east , could fondly rest on the farthest ridge of hills in the horizon , and fancy that from their summits Combe Magna might be seen .  -- All idle refinement !  Elinor , I am miserable , indeed , '' before her voice was entirely lost in sobs .  My poor mother does not know how to bear it .  John Knightley looked at him with amazement , then shrugged his shoulders , and said , `` I could not have believed it even of _him_ . ''  Louisa had once opened her eyes , but soon closed them again , without apparent consciousness .  I wonder you should think it possible for me to have such feelings .  `` Oh ! ''  And for a little while she hoped he would not talk of it , and that a silent rumination might suffice to restore him to the relish of his own smooth gruel .  I call it a very fine country -- the hills are steep , the woods seem full of fine timber , and the valley looks comfortable and snug -- with rich meadows and several neat farm houses scattered here and there .  He has told me so himself . ''  cried Louisa more eagerly , and taking her sister aside , seemed to be arguing the matter warmly .  The ball proceeded pleasantly .  We copied it from the Elegant Extracts .  Though Mrs. Jennings was in the habit of spending a large portion of the year at the houses of her children and friends , she was not without a settled habitation of her own .  I was very unwilling to enter into it , as you may imagine , without the knowledge and approbation of his mother ; but I was too young , and loved him too well , to be so prudent as I ought to have been. -- Though you do not know him so well as me , Miss Dashwood , you must have seen enough of him to be sensible he is very capable of making a woman sincerely attached to him . ''  Mrs. Churchill , after being disliked at least twenty-five years , was now spoken of with compassionate allowances .  I am sure I have not got one half so good . ''  -- Those were Miss Woodhouse 's words , were they ? -- And a fine ending -- and there is the letter .  I knew it was -- but had not resolution enough to part with them . ''  But it was the biggest footprint Farmer Brown 's boy ever had seen , and it looked as if it had been made only a few minutes before .  The interest he takes in her -- his anxiety about her health -- his concern that she should have no happier prospect !  It was soon drawn , perforce another way .  Her Christian name : I always forget her Christian name . ''  The corn is getting too ripe ; it 's no use to wait for our relatives , we shall have to cut this corn ourselves . '  Such an adventure as this , -- a fine young man and a lovely young woman thrown together in such a way , could hardly fail of suggesting certain ideas to the coldest heart and the steadiest brain .  shouted Blacky .  `` No , he is not so unworthy as you believe him .  And what is her attraction ?  I do not like ruined , tattered cottages .  The artist was overjoyed at the commission , and worked early and late at the statue .  I have not seen one of them to-day , except Mr Musgrove , who just stopped and spoke through the window , but without getting off his horse ; and though I told him how ill I was , not one of them have been near me .  His choice of subjects , his expressions , and still more his manner and look , had been such as she could see in only one light .  Consider what you are about .  He is fastidious and will have an affectation of his own . ''  THE VOICE OF THE ANCIENT BARD Youth of delight !  In good time the seeds sprouted , and the dry , brown earth was covered with a carpet of tender , green , growing things .  `` By all means , '' said she ; `` only tell me all about it , when you do come .  `` Nothing at all , I should rather suppose ; for she has only her jointure , which will descend to her children . ''  why fades the lotus of the water ?  Sir Walter only nodded .  She found , however , that it was one to which she must inure herself .  Emma could not suppose any such thing , knowing as she did , that both the Mr. Knightleys were as unpersuadable on that article as herself ; -- and two basins only were ordered .  What can it mean ?  The Palmers returned to Cleveland the next day , and the two families at Barton were again left to entertain each other .  Willoughby ? ''  You know your own concerns best .  Now having one 's own way too much is a bad thing .  It was forwarded to me from Delaford , and I received it on the very morning of our intended party to Whitwell ; and this was the reason of my leaving Barton so suddenly , which I am sure must at the time have appeared strange to every body , and which I believe gave offence to some .  She is a standing lesson of how to be happy .  `` Is she still in town ? ''  actually resolve to break with him entirely ! -- She felt the engagement to be a source of repentance and misery to each -- she dissolved it. -- What a view this gives of her sense of his behaviour ! -- Well , he must be a most extraordinary -- ''  't is a nice place !  `` Oh !  `` This is most kind , indeed ! -- Miss Woodhouse , it is impossible for me to express -- I hope you will believe -- Excuse me for being so entirely without words . ''  `` Me ! ''  On the other side of the Smiling Pool were Reddy Fox , Digger the Badger , and Bobby Coon .  A piece of paper was found on the table this morning -- ( dropt , we suppose , by a fairy ) -- containing a very pretty charade , and we have just copied it in . ''  She hoped , on turning her head , to see the master of the house ; but it proved to be one much less calculated for making matters easy -- Charles Hayter , probably not at all better pleased by the sight of Captain Wentworth than Captain Wentworth had been by the sight of Anne .  `` Oh God !  They read , they talked , they sang together ; his musical talents were considerable ; and he read with all the sensibility and spirit which Edward had unfortunately wanted .  Of the lady , individually , Emma thought very little .  If you were to see them at the altar , you would suppose they were going to be married .  Such was Jane Fairfax 's history .  The flaring lamps of a carriage were immediately in view .  no one , no one -- he talked to me only of myself . ''  A very few days brought the party from London , and she had no sooner an opportunity of being one hour alone with Harriet , than she became perfectly satisfied -- unaccountable as it was ! -- that Robert Martin had thoroughly supplanted Mr. Knightley , and was now forming all her views of happiness .  If only he had kept his tongue still instead of saying hateful things to Buster Bear !  `` But what does Lady Russell think of this acquaintance ? ''  `` No , no , it is not man 's nature .  When the note was shown to Elinor , as it was within ten minutes after its arrival , it gave her , for the first time , some share in the expectations of Lucy ; for such a mark of uncommon kindness , vouchsafed on so short an acquaintance , seemed to declare that the good-will towards her arose from something more than merely malice against herself ; and might be brought , by time and address , to do every thing that Lucy wished .  Elinor 's satisfaction , at the moment of removal , was more positive .  It had not been possible for him to spend less ; he had done nothing but what Sir Walter Elliot was imperiously called on to do ; but blameless as he was , he was not only growing dreadfully in debt , but was hearing of it so often , that it became vain to attempt concealing it longer , even partially , from his daughter .  But as he required the promise , I could not do less than give it ; at least I thought so at the time .  replied her mother with a smile .  And so she began inquiring after her directly , saying , `I know you can not have heard from Jane lately , because it is not her time for writing ; ' and when I immediately said , `But indeed we have , we had a letter this very morning , ' I do not know that I ever saw any body more surprized .  You made a lucky guess ; and _that_ is all that can be said . ''  reciprocal compliments , which would have been esteemed about equal .  Had she been using any thing in particular ? ''  Frank Churchill had danced once at Highbury , and longed to dance again ; and the last half-hour of an evening which Mr. Woodhouse was persuaded to spend with his daughter at Randalls , was passed by the two young people in schemes on the subject .  As soon as his mother opened the door he said , `` Is the kettle boiling ? ''  `` Poor Elinor !  And there would be poor Emma in the carriage behind .  There was a numerous family ; but the only two grown up , excepting Charles , were Henrietta and Louisa , young ladies of nineteen and twenty , who had brought from school at Exeter all the usual stock of accomplishments , and were now like thousands of other young ladies , living to be fashionable , happy , and merry .  -- You always called me , `Mr. Knightley ; ' and , from habit , it has not so very formal a sound. -- And yet it is formal .  But one night Gottlieb saw that his mother was more than usually troubled .  She knows I would not offend for the world .  Mrs. Dashwood 's visit to Lady Middleton took place the next day , and two of her daughters went with her ; but Marianne excused herself from being of the party , under some trifling pretext of employment ; and her mother , who concluded that a promise had been made by Willoughby the night before of calling on her while they were absent , was perfectly satisfied with her remaining at home .  Elinor derived no comfortable feelings from this conversation , to lessen the uneasiness of her mind on other points ; she was left , on the contrary , with a melancholy impression of Colonel Brandon 's unhappiness , and was prevented even from wishing it removed , by her anxiety for the very event that must confirm it .  Mrs. Bates , the widow of a former vicar of Highbury , was a very old lady , almost past every thing but tea and quadrille .  And that I fancy , will be the end of it .  `` Mr. Elton in love with me ! -- What an idea ! ''  `` We want only two more to be just the right number .  If you had only sent him to Westminster as well as myself , instead of sending him to Mr. Pratt 's , all this would have been prevented . '  your manner might be only the ease which your engagement to another man would give .  If I am a fool , I shall be a fool indeed , for I have thought on the subject more than most men . ''  Mr. Churchill 's loss would be dreadful indeed .  In the mean time , till all these alterations could be made from the savings of an income of five hundred a-year by a woman who never saved in her life , they were wise enough to be contented with the house as it was ; and each of them was busy in arranging their particular concerns , and endeavoring , by placing around them books and other possessions , to form themselves a home .  It was some comfort to him that many inquiries after himself and Miss Woodhouse ( for his neighbours knew that he loved to be inquired after ) , as well as Miss Smith , were coming in during the rest of the day ; and he had the pleasure of returning for answer , that they were all very indifferent -- which , though not exactly true , for she was perfectly well , and Harriet not much otherwise , Emma would not interfere with .  Young and gentle as she was , it might yet have been possible to withstand her father 's ill-will , though unsoftened by one kind word or look on the part of her sister ; but Lady Russell , whom she had always loved and relied on , could not , with such steadiness of opinion , and such tenderness of manner , be continually advising her in vain .  The two grandmothers , with not less partiality , but more sincerity , were equally earnest in support of their own descendant .  I am sorry for _her_ .  Margery 's mother was almost as eager for a garden as she was , and Margery 's father said he expected to live on their vegetables all the rest of his life !  `` Ah !  Men of sense , whatever you may chuse to say , do not want silly wives .  `` I have no hesitation in saying , '' replied Mr. Elton , though hesitating a good deal while he spoke ; `` I have no hesitation in saying -- at least if my friend feels at all as _I_ do -- I have not the smallest doubt that , could he see his little effusion honoured as _I_ see it , ( looking at the book again , and replacing it on the table ) , he would consider it as the proudest moment of his life . ''  You see when he had found the heads of those trout on the bank he knew right away that some one else had been fishing , and that was why he could n't catch any ; but it did n't seem possible that little Billy Mink could have eaten all those trout , and Farmer Brown 's boy did n't once think of Little Joe Otter , and so he was very , very much puzzled .  `` Is this the real reason of your coming ? ''  I know those who would be shocked by such a representation of Mr Elliot , who would have difficulty in believing it ; but I have never been satisfied .  He had many years ago received such a description of Miss Anne Elliot as had inspired him with the highest idea of her merit , and excited the warmest curiosity to know her . ''  I feel it so very due .  Yet , though smiling within herself at the mistake , she honoured her sister for that blind partiality to Edward which produced it .  `` I have no doubt of his being a very respectable young man .  This is a matter of mere common politeness and good-breeding , and has nothing to do with any encouragement to people to marry . ''  `` Indeed ! -- from Yorkshire , I think .  Margery had thought she could begin to sow the seed right off .  You should have consulted Perry . ''  No indeed I am not . ''  I must not quarrel with a spirit of forbearance which has been so richly extended towards myself ; but , otherwise , I should loudly protest against the share of it which that woman has known. -- `Jane , ' indeed ! -- You will observe that I have not yet indulged myself in calling her by that name , even to you .  I will invite your guests . ''  `` Aha ! ''  Her smile however changed to a sigh when she remembered that promise to Willoughby was yet unfulfilled , and feared she had that to communicate which might again unsettle the mind of Marianne , and ruin at least for a time this fair prospect of busy tranquillity .  His looks shewing him not pained , but pleased with this allusion to his situation , she was emboldened to go on ; and feeling in herself the right of seniority of mind , she ventured to recommend a larger allowance of prose in his daily study ; and on being requested to particularize , mentioned such works of our best moralists , such collections of the finest letters , such memoirs of characters of worth and suffering , as occurred to her at the moment as calculated to rouse and fortify the mind by the highest precepts , and the strongest examples of moral and religious endurances .  `` Did he come from your uncle 's , then , when he visited us ? ''  As soon as she came to her own name , it was irresistible ; every line relating to herself was interesting , and almost every line agreeable ; and when this charm ceased , the subject could still maintain itself , by the natural return of her former regard for the writer , and the very strong attraction which any picture of love must have for her at that moment .  The name of Willoughby , John Willoughby , frequently repeated , first caught my attention ; and what followed was a positive assertion that every thing was now finally settled respecting his marriage with Miss Grey -- it was no longer to be a secret -- it would take place even within a few weeks , with many particulars of preparations and other matters .  The good lady had not given me the possibility of escape before . ''  he said .  You see , Buster knew perfectly well when he invited Little Joe to come back and get it that Little Joe would n't dare do anything of the kind .  THE TIGER Tiger , tiger , burning bright In the forest of the night , What immortal hand or eye Could Frame thy fearful symmetry ?  That 's a funny thing for hair to do -- rise up all of a sudden -- is n't it ?  Mrs. Dashwood first spoke .  Why an Ear , a whirlpool fierce to draw creations in ?  At Christmas every body invites their friends about them , and people think little of even the worst weather .  They are quite different creatures with you !  `` Oh !  `` I have often thought them the worst of the two , '' replied he coolly .  When it was wound up it played a waltz tune , and as it played it moved its little tail up and down .  The pleasantness of the morning had induced him to walk forward , and leave his horses to meet him by another road , a mile or two beyond Highbury -- and happening to have borrowed a pair of scissors the night before of Miss Bates , and to have forgotten to restore them , he had been obliged to stop at her door , and go in for a few minutes : he was therefore later than he had intended ; and being on foot , was unseen by the whole party till almost close to them .  Somehow , he did n't feel like meeting Buster Bear .  Dare say you heard the carriage , sir , while you were at dinner ; and going on now for Crewkherne , in his way to Bath and London . ''  She had taken up the idea , she supposed , and made every thing bend to it .  If attention , in future , could do away the past , she might hope to be forgiven .  I am not sorry , indeed , to make it over to another .  `` But Colonel Brandon does not seem to have any idea of the living 's being enough to allow them to marry . ''  In one thing , however , she was uniform , when it came to the point , in avoiding , where it was possible , the presence of Mrs. Jennings , and in a determined silence when obliged to endure it .  Lady Russell loved them all ; but it was only in Anne that she could fancy the mother to revive again .  They have no difficulties to contend with at home , no opposition , no caprice , no delays .  They , in their different homes , and their different ways , might be looking back on it with pleasure ; but in her view it was a morning more completely misspent , more totally bare of rational satisfaction at the time , and more to be abhorred in recollection , than any she had ever passed .  Yes , Harriet , just so long have I been wanting the very circumstance to happen what has happened .  `` Well , but Miss Dashwood , '' speaking triumphantly , `` people may say what they chuse about Mr. Ferrars 's declaring he would not have Lucy , for it is no such thing I can tell you ; and it is quite a shame for such ill-natured reports to be spread abroad .  Could the knowledge have been extended through her family ?  His reading has done him no harm , for he has fought as well as read .  Ah !  I have been acting contrary to all my sense of right ; and the fortunate turn that every thing has taken , and the kindness I am now receiving , is what my conscience tells me ought not to be . '  Frank Churchill 's character was not desperate. -- She was his own Emma , by hand and word , when they returned into the house ; and if he could have thought of Frank Churchill then , he might have deemed him a very good sort of fellow .  I always pity them when they do ; they seem to take it so much to heart . ''  `` I always , supposed the plants were different from the minute they began to grow . ''  Elinor was very angry , but Marianne seemed entirely insensible of the sting ; for she calmly replied ,  Presently they came to a place where an old Bullock was lying by the road .  I do not care if it IS the Doctor 's favourite colour .  Her husband , however , would not agree with her here ; for besides having a regard for his cousin , Charles Hayter was an eldest son , and he saw things as an eldest son himself .  Elinor joyfully profited by the first of these proposals , and thus by a little of that address which Marianne could never condescend to practise , gained her own end , and pleased Lady Middleton at the same time .  It is really very good of you to come and sit with me , when you must have so many pleasanter demands upon your time . ''  You will like Harriet .  `` Poor Jane Fairfax ! ''  `` Yes , '' said he , looking not exactly forward ; `` but there , I think , ends the resemblance .  As to Captain Wentworth 's views , she deemed it of more consequence that he should know his own mind early enough not to be endangering the happiness of either sister , or impeaching his own honour , than that he should prefer Henrietta to Louisa , or Louisa to Henrietta .  And heard this voice of sorrow breathed from the hollow pit .  -- She was stopped by a cough .  `` Brother Banyan , '' said the Brahmin , eagerly , `` does it seem to you right or just that this Tiger should eat me , when I set him free from his cage ? ''  He has changed his hour of going , I suppose , that is all , or I may be mistaken , I might not attend ; '' and walked back to her chair , recomposed , and with the comfortable hope of having acquitted herself well .  `` He scrambles the ground , father ! ''  Marianne was quite angry with her for doubting it .  The youth and cheerfulness of morning are in happy analogy , and of powerful operation ; and if the distress be not poignant enough to keep the eyes unclosed , they will be sure to open to sensations of softened pain and brighter hope .  Had you married , you must have been always poor .  To hear them talking so much of Captain Wentworth , repeating his name so often , puzzling over past years , and at last ascertaining that it might , that it probably would , turn out to be the very same Captain Wentworth whom they recollected meeting , once or twice , after their coming back from Clifton -- a very fine young man -- but they could not say whether it was seven or eight years ago , was a new sort of trial to Anne 's nerves .  he could ride to London at any time .  Mr. Elton 's rights , however , gradually revived .  `` But , unfortunately , sir , my time is so limited -- ''  It seemed foolish to hope , but a boy is not long cast down , and as Gottlieb sat dreaming , a happy inspiration came to him .  Ten couple , in either of the Randalls rooms , would have been insufferable ! -- Dreadful ! -- I felt how right you were the whole time , but was too anxious for securing _any_ _thing_ to like to yield .  He may be sure of every woman 's approbation while he writes with such gallantry . ''  In a few minutes the carriage returned. -- Somebody talked of rain. -- `` I will see that there are umbrellas , sir , '' said Frank to his father : `` Miss Bates must not be forgotten : '' and away he went .  Does the Eagle know what is in the pit ?  Marianne was spared from the troublesome feelings of contempt and resentment , on this impertinent examination of their features , and on the puppyism of his manner in deciding on all the different horrors of the different toothpick-cases presented to his inspection , by remaining unconscious of it all ; for she was as well able to collect her thoughts within herself , and be as ignorant of what was passing around her , in Mr. Gray 's shop , as in her own bedroom .  I tell every body of it and so does Charlotte . ''  You had rather look out for misery for Marianne , and guilt for poor Willoughby , than an apology for the latter .  You will not be hysterical again .  That ai n't the way to carry a puppy-dog !  How does Miss Smith do ?  `` If you were to make a plough for me , '' said the lion , `` I and the other lions could be ploughing and harrowing until we 'd have a bit to eat in the harvest . ''  Their actual speed , heightened by some dread of the conclusion , made the road appear but half as long as on the day before .  It was an afternoon of distress , and Anne had every thing to do at once ; the apothecary to send for , the father to have pursued and informed , the mother to support and keep from hysterics , the servants to control , the youngest child to banish , and the poor suffering one to attend and soothe ; besides sending , as soon as she recollected it , proper notice to the other house , which brought her an accession rather of frightened , enquiring companions , than of very useful assistants .  Whiff !  In what state the affair stood at present between them , Edward knew not , for no communication with any of his family had yet been attempted by him .  Come , come , this wo n't do .  There was one point which Anne , on returning to her family , would have been more thankful to ascertain even than Mr Elliot 's being in love with Elizabeth , which was , her father 's not being in love with Mrs Clay ; and she was very far from easy about it , when she had been at home a few hours .  after taking her all over Allenham House , and fixing on the very rooms they were to live in hereafter ! ''  They were called on to share in the awkwardness of a rather long interval between the courses , and obliged to be as formal and as orderly as the others ; but when the table was again safely covered , when every corner dish was placed exactly right , and occupation and ease were generally restored , Emma said ,  She had been at Bath the year before , and Lady Russell had heard her spoken of as a charming woman .  said he at last .  CHAPTER V  There was consciousness , animation , and warmth ; there was every thing which her countenance or manner could ever have wanted. -- She came forward with an offered hand ; and said , in a low , but very feeling tone ,  I wo n't disturb her any longer , for she had better have her cry out at once and have done with .  `` Your father will not be easy ; why do not you go ? ''  After a long while he gave it up , and , since there was nothing better to do , he mounted the old grey donkey and set out again .  `` He intends to send his groom into Somersetshire immediately for it , '' she added , `` and when it arrives we will ride every day .  CHAPTER I  Time will generally lessen the interest of every attachment not within the daily circle -- but that is not the change I had in view for you .  They would catch worse colds at the Crown than anywhere . ''  I hope you will think better of their looks to-morrow ; for I assure you Mr. Wingfield told me , that he did not believe he had ever sent us off altogether , in such good case .  You had , somehow or other , broken bounds yesterday , and run away from your own management ; but to-day you are got back again -- and as I can not be always with you , it is best to believe your temper under your own command rather than mine . ''  In that respect Mrs. Weston 's loss had been important .  'But how can it be done ? '  It came from Mr Elliot .  `` Oh , no !  I wonder who the friend was -- and who could be the young lady .  Mr. Knightley , I wish you had the benefit of this ; I think this would convince you .  Admiral Croft 's manners were not quite of the tone to suit Lady Russell , but they delighted Anne .  She desired nothing better herself .  Marianne might at that moment be dying .  Before Sir Walter had reached this point , Anne 's eyes had caught the right direction , and distinguished Captain Wentworth standing among a cluster of men at a little distance .  Nobody talked about it .  Am not I A fly like thee ?  Fan me a little with your wing , I beg . ''  And it grew both day and night , Till it bore an apple bright , And my foe beheld it shine , and he knew that it was mine , -- And into my garden stole When the night had veiled the pole ; In the morning , glad , I see My foe outstretched beneath the tree .  But he did n't , and so he suddenly made up his mind that he did n't want to fish any more that day .  are we to have the pleasure of a call from Mr .  And one took one of her little hands , and the other took her other little hand , and they ran , ran , ran with her right up to the top of the ground .  CHAPTER 25  Can you think your friend behindhand in these sort of considerations ?  A few knelt to pray .  `` And we are put on earth a little space , That we may learn to bear the beams of love And these black bodies and this sunburnt face Is but a cloud , and like a shady grove .  Miss Fairfax , who had seldom spoken before , except among her own confederates , spoke now .  She insisted on being left behind , the next morning , when the others went out .  poor Harriet ! ''  `` You are very handsome , very charming , prince , '' said Zelia ; `` but you are not like the good king , your father ; I fear you would make me very miserable if I were your queen . ''  Mr. Dashwood attended them down stairs , was introduced to Mrs. Jennings at the door of her carriage , and repeating his hope of being able to call on them the next day , took leave .  They were rapidly forming words for each other , or for any body else who would be puzzled .  We have now been here almost a fortnight , and yet he does not come .  As soon as they entered the house , Marianne with a kiss of gratitude and these two words just articulate through her tears , `` Tell mama , '' withdrew from her sister and walked slowly up stairs .  Elizabeth , may we venture to present him and his wife in Laura Place ? ''  I am sure she does .  She repeated it to Edward .  Splash !  Elinor would not oppose his opinion , because , whatever might be her general estimation of the advantage of a public school , she could not think of Edward 's abode in Mr. Pratt 's family , with any satisfaction .  In a firm , though cautious tone , Elinor thus began .  `` I felt myself , '' she added , `` to be as solemnly engaged to him , as if the strictest legal covenant had bound us to each other . ''  Then came others , -- Redtail the Hawk , Scrapper the Kingbird , Redwing the Blackbird , Drummer the Woodpecker , Welcome Robin , Tommy Tit the Chickadee , Jenny Wren , Redeye the Vireo , and ever so many more .  Mrs. Jennings had been anxious to see Colonel Brandon well married , ever since her connection with Sir John first brought him to her knowledge ; and she was always anxious to get a good husband for every pretty girl .  Breakfast had not been long over , when they were joined by Captain and Mrs Harville and Captain Benwick ; with whom they had appointed to take their last walk about Lyme .  `` It is too much a matter of fact , but here it is. -- What two letters of the alphabet are there , that express perfection ? ''  But I was really quite shocked the other day -- for Mr. Knightley called one morning , and Jane was eating these apples , and we talked about them and said how much she enjoyed them , and he asked whether we were not got to the end of our stock .  One five minutes brought a note , the next a parcel ; and Anne had not been there half an hour , when their dining-room , spacious as it was , seemed more than half filled : a party of steady old friends were seated around Mrs Musgrove , and Charles came back with Captains Harville and Wentworth .  You see Little Joe and Billy Mink had had all the fishing in the Laughing Brook to themselves so long that they thought no one else had any right to fish there .  With their wealth , their views increased ; their want of a larger house , their inclination for more company .  Miss Smith , the step at the turning . ''  Music seems scarcely to attract him , and though he admires Elinor 's drawings very much , it is not the admiration of a person who can understand their worth .  Come , my dear Emma , let us be friends , and say no more about it .  He had ridden home through the rain ; and had walked up directly after dinner , to see how this sweetest and best of all creatures , faultless in spite of all her faults , bore the discovery .  And as to its recommendations to _you_ , I fancy I need not take much pains to dwell on them .  One of five thousand Mr Smiths whose names are to be met with everywhere .  Was it impossible ? -- No. -- Harriet undoubtedly was greatly his inferior in understanding ; but he had been very much struck with the loveliness of her face and the warm simplicity of her manner ; and all the probabilities of circumstance and connexion were in her favour. -- For Harriet , it would be advantageous and delightful indeed .  `` I do not suppose the situation my friend Mrs Rooke is in at present , will furnish much either to interest or edify me .  `` Tha -- nks , '' responded the Diamond in languid tones of affectation .  And in the morning all four pairs were made .  This was what they were saying : -- `` You are the biggest thing on the land , Brother Elephant , '' said the Whale , `` and I am the biggest thing in the sea ; if we join together we can rule all the animals in the world , and have our way about everything . ''  returned Mr. Knightley , with energy .  There were three others , Jane says , which they hesitated about some time .  She was first called to observe and approve him farther , by a reflection which Elinor chanced one day to make on the difference between him and his sister .  You are safe in all worldly matters , and safe in his character .  The kind Moon made a path up to the sky , and up sailed the little bed into the midst of the sky .  `` I do not think he is conceited either , in general , '' said Harriet , her conscience opposing such censure ; `` at least , he is very good natured , and I shall always feel much obliged to him , and have a great regard for -- but that is quite a different thing from -- and you know , though he may like me , it does not follow that I should -- and certainly I must confess that since my visiting here I have seen people -- and if one comes to compare them , person and manners , there is no comparison at all , _one_ is so very handsome and agreeable .  Matrimony , as the origin of change , was always disagreeable ; and he was by no means yet reconciled to his own daughter 's marrying , nor could ever speak of her but with compassion , though it had been entirely a match of affection , when he was now obliged to part with Miss Taylor too ; and from his habits of gentle selfishness , and of being never able to suppose that other people could feel differently from himself , he was very much disposed to think Miss Taylor had done as sad a thing for herself as for them , and would have been a great deal happier if she had spent all the rest of her life at Hartfield .  `` Well , _our_ fish , then !  So he asked her to sing again , and this time she sang so marvellously that the tears came out of his eyes and ran down his cheeks .  It will certainly be much the best way .  In half a minute they were in the room .  As it was , she instantly submitted , and with all the semblance of seeing nothing beyond ; and Anne , eager to escape farther notice , was impatient to know why Mrs Smith should have fancied she was to marry Mr Elliot ; where she could have received the idea , or from whom she could have heard it .  The dread of being awakened from the happiest dream , was perhaps the most prominent feeling .  `` No , '' said Anne , `` that I can easily believe to be impossible ; but in time , perhaps -- we know what time does in every case of affliction , and you must remember , Captain Harville , that your friend may yet be called a young mourner -- only last summer , I understand . ''  said the little Half-Chick `` I have no time to bother with you .  He had been most agreeable , most delightful ; he had told Harriet that he had seen them go by , and had purposely followed them ; other little gallantries and allusions had been dropt , but nothing serious .  She was sure of Mrs. Weston 's wishing it to be communicated ; especially to one , who , like Mr. Knightley , had seen so much to blame in his conduct .  She had a strong impression of his having said , in a vext tone of voice , after Captain Wentworth 's interference , `` You ought to have minded me , Walter ; I told you not to teaze your aunt ; '' and could comprehend his regretting that Captain Wentworth should do what he ought to have done himself .  Lucy first put an end to it by saying in a lower tone , though Marianne was then giving them the powerful protection of a very magnificent concerto --  The same story and the same raptures were repeated , when the two girls came with their father , through the gloom of the evening , to make enquiries ; and Mr Musgrove , no longer under the first uneasiness about his heir , could add his confirmation and praise , and hope there would be now no occasion for putting Captain Wentworth off , and only be sorry to think that the cottage party , probably , would not like to leave the little boy , to give him the meeting .  `` If we could be certain that it would be only for a while !  And if they are , I only beg you to send them home . ''  In a few minutes they could distinguish him to be a gentleman ; and in a moment afterwards Marianne rapturously exclaimed ,  The reason alleged was their determined resolution of not leaving their mother at that time of the year .  It was contrary to every doctrine of her 's that difference of fortune should keep any couple asunder who were attracted by resemblance of disposition ; and that Elinor 's merit should not be acknowledged by every one who knew her , was to her comprehension impossible .  Lord !  I have no fears at all for myself ; and I should have no scruples of staying as late as Mrs. Weston , but on your account .  If Elizabeth and her father did not deceive themselves , had been taking much pains to seek the acquaintance , and proclaim the value of the connection , as he had formerly taken pains to shew neglect .  Indeed you should take care of yourself as well as of your friend .  `` I will , '' said the Duck .  It was an awkward ceremony at any time to be receiving wedding visits , and a man had need be all grace to acquit himself well through it .  Mrs. Elton is very good-natured and agreeable , and I dare say her acquaintance are just what they ought to be .  `` Are you sure ?  Her power with him was gone for ever .  Man is more robust than woman , but he is not longer lived ; which exactly explains my view of the nature of their attachments .  `But , ' said I , `to be quite honest , I do not think I can live without something of a musical society .  And then each saw the rope in the other 's hold .  And woman , lovely woman , reigns alone .  When he reached the palace his pet dog ran to meet him .  `` I am , dear Madam , `` Your most obedient `` humble servant , `` JOHN WILLOUGHBY . ''  This was astonishing ! -- She could not have believed it possible that the taste or the pride of Miss Fairfax could endure such society and friendship as the Vicarage had to offer .  She then repeated some warm personal praise which she had drawn from Mr. Elton , and now did full justice to ; and Harriet blushed and smiled , and said she had always thought Mr. Elton very agreeable .  He had seen you indeed , before he came to Bath , and admired you , but without knowing it to be you .  `` February 1st .  Sir John was rather puzzled .  But with the pail it was different .  As for you , my friend , '' he said to the Tiger , `` I think you will wait a good while before you 'll find anyone to let you out again ! ''  `` We can mean no other , '' cried Lucy , smiling .  That he should be married soon , before ( as she imagined ) he could be in orders , and consequently before he could be in possession of the living , surprised her a little at first .  very well done indeed !  I have crossed the Atlantic four times , and have been once to the East Indies , and back again , and only once ; besides being in different places about home : Cork , and Lisbon , and Gibraltar .  Sir Walter wanted to know whether the Crofts travelled with four horses , and whether they were likely to be situated in such a part of Bath as it might suit Miss Elliot and himself to visit in ; but had little curiosity beyond .  He was to come to breakfast , but not at the Cottage , though that had been proposed at first ; but then he had been pressed to come to the Great House instead , and he seemed afraid of being in Mrs Charles Musgrove 's way , on account of the child , and therefore , somehow , they hardly knew how , it ended in Charles 's being to meet him to breakfast at his father 's .  `` So very obliging of you ! -- No rain at all .  I believe I did not play with the children quite so much as usual .  `` I can not name a day , '' said he , `` till I have spoken to some others whom I would wish to meet you . ''  Five couple are nothing , when one thinks seriously about it .  Happy those , who can remain at Highbury ! ''  It was hard to believe , but it was true .  Then he once more fell to knocking it this way and that way , until it was pounded flat , and no one would ever have guessed that it had once been a pail .  Can the old lady ? ''  asked David .  This was the fact .  Tell me , Willoughby ; for heaven 's sake tell me , what is the matter ? ''  His admiration was certainly very warm ; yet she thought , but for Mrs. Weston , it would not have struck her .  Now to have all his neighbors of the Green Forest see him in such a fix and make fun of him , was more than he could stand .  CHAPTER 46  Only one page more .  He left her house yesterday , but where he is gone , or whether he is still in town , I do not know ; for WE of course can make no inquiry . ''  Is nothing due to the man whom we have all such reason to love , and no reason in the world to think ill of ?  Have you forgot that we are engaged to Camden Place to-morrow night ?  `` Um-m-m , um-m-m , '' mumbled Buster Bear with his mouth full , as he moved along to another patch of berries .  `` You are right .  Remember me kindly to her .  But no sooner was the distress known to Mr. Elton , than it was removed .  They were describing him themselves ; Sir Walter especially .  From the window he watches me and thinks , `` There is the little blackberry-bush that was so kind to me .  It suggested no other surprise than that Elinor and Marianne should sit so composedly by , without claiming a share in what was passing .  Jane did not look round .  I can not really change for the better .  Do not we rather surpass your expectations ?  `` Upon my word , Emma , to hear you abusing the reason you have , is almost enough to make me think so too .  It was the good fairy .  Your dear mother was so clever at all those things !  The happiness of Miss Smith was quite equal to her intentions .  Sir John could do no more ; but he did not know that any more was required : to be together was , in his opinion , to be intimate , and while his continual schemes for their meeting were effectual , he had not a doubt of their being established friends .  `` I do not know what I told her , '' he replied , impatiently ; `` less than was due to the past , beyond a doubt , and in all likelihood much more than was justified by the future .  `` I want no proof of their affection , '' said Elinor ; `` but of their engagement I do . ''  They had stopped at Mrs. Bates 's door to offer the use of their carriage , but the aunt and niece were to be brought by the Eltons .  It was made a great favour of ; and altogether it was more than I could bear ; and so I never would finish it , to have it apologised over as an unfavourable likeness , to every morning visitor in Brunswick Square ; -- and , as I said , I did then forswear ever drawing any body again .  I have been but half a friend to her ; and if she were _not_ to feel this disappointment so very much , I am sure I have not an idea of any body else who would be at all desirable for her ; -- William Coxe -- Oh !  My business is with you , and only you . ''  However , she seems a very obliging , pretty-behaved young lady , and no doubt will make him a very good wife .  Dear Miss Woodhouse , how could you so mistake me ? ''  Chuckling happily over Buster Bear 's great fright , Farmer Brown 's boy tramped back to the spring where he had left two thick sandwiches on a flat stone when he started to save his pail of berries .  `` What is this ? -- What is this ? ''  Then he had seen Buster tear away through the brush even more frightened than he was , and right away his courage had begun to come back .  She seems quite recovered now .  This , Emma could not doubt , was all for herself .  no ; there would be a Mrs. Knightley to throw cold water on every thing. -- Extremely disagreeable !  How they could be thrown together , and by what attraction Robert could be drawn on to marry a girl , of whose beauty she had herself heard him speak without any admiration , -- a girl too already engaged to his brother , and on whose account that brother had been thrown off by his family -- it was beyond her comprehension to make out .  She could therefore only LOOK her tenderness , and after slightly addressing him , said no more .  The Little Fir Tree wanted greatly to see life , but he was always too little ; the men passed him by .  dear , I thought it would have been the death of me !  The Miss Hayters , the females of the family of cousins already mentioned , were apparently admitted to the honour of being in love with him ; and as for Henrietta and Louisa , they both seemed so entirely occupied by him , that nothing but the continued appearance of the most perfect good-will between themselves could have made it credible that they were not decided rivals .  She is playing _Robin_ _Adair_ at this moment -- _his_ favourite . ''  Overhead hung bunches of sausages , and there were spicy apples in barrels standing about .  now you are looking very sly .  The Tortoise said she would not say a word ; she would not so much as move her mouth ; and she was very grateful .  But for Harriet 's sake , or rather for my own , and as there are no husbands and wives in the case _at_ _present_ , I will break my resolution now . ''  Of course , when he came down to the Green Forest to live , he brought all his habits with him .  `` Oh !  He had not forgiven Anne Elliot .  `` Perhaps , '' said Elinor , smiling , `` we may come to the same point .  Marianne 's lips quivered , and she repeated the word `` Selfish ? ''  And for my part , I was all in a fright for fear your sister should ask us for the huswifes she had gave us a day or two before ; but , however , nothing was said about them , and I took care to keep mine out of sight .  I felt that she was infinitely dearer to me than any other woman in the world , and that I was using her infamously .  `` I am glad you think so ; and the good hands , I hope , may not be wanting . ''  At ten years old , she had the misfortune of being able to answer questions which puzzled her sister at seventeen .  While they were at breakfast the letters were brought in .  My cousins have been so plaguing me !  Apologies for her seemingly ungracious silence in their first reception , and the warmest expressions of the gratitude she was always feeling towards herself and Mr. Weston , must necessarily open the cause ; but when these effusions were put by , they had talked a good deal of the present and of the future state of the engagement .  Other designs might afterward arise . ''  Let me entreat you , Miss Woodhouse , to exercise so charming a talent in favour of your friend .  Herr Grupello smiled a little .  Nothing could be done without a reference to Elizabeth : but her inclination was growing so strong for a removal , that she was happy to have it fixed and expedited by a tenant at hand ; and not a word to suspend decision was uttered by her .  `` Mrs. Cole has servants to send .  The Crofts must be in Bath !  When she had unkind or dissatisfied thoughts , she tried to get rid of them by playing they were enemies of the kingdom ; and she drove them out with soldiers ; the soldiers were patience , duty , and love .  `` Then you would not have me tell it to Lucy , for I think of going as far as Holborn to-day . ''  The Lilly of the valley breathing in the humble grass Answerd the lovely maid and said : I am a watry weed , And I am very small and love to dwell in lowly vales : So weak the gilded butterfly scarce perches on my head Yet I am visited from heaven and he that smiles on all Walks in the valley , and each morn over me spreads his hand Saying , rejoice thou humble grass , thou new-born lily flower .  `` I shall eat it myself .  `` And the staircase -- You know , as I came in , I observed how very like the staircase was ; placed exactly in the same part of the house .  Unaccountable , however , as the circumstances of his release might appear to the whole family , it was certain that Edward was free ; and to what purpose that freedom would be employed was easily pre-determined by all ; -- for after experiencing the blessings of ONE imprudent engagement , contracted without his mother 's consent , as he had already done for more than four years , nothing less could be expected of him in the failure of THAT , than the immediate contraction of another .  He saw Buster Bear in the Old Pasture , and smiled as he saw what a perfectly glorious time Buster was having .  Just then one of Buster 's big paws went into the water as quick as a flash and scooped out a trout that had ventured too near .  And in this wood lived a little Nightingale .  Oh yes , Friday or Saturday next .  .  I must order the carriage .  Emma continued ,  Charles came a few hours afterwards , to bring a later and more particular account .  She came in with a smile , smiled all the time of her visit , except when she laughed , and smiled when she went away .  She was the youngest of the two daughters of a most affectionate , indulgent father ; and had , in consequence of her sister 's marriage , been mistress of his house from a very early period .  She has a fault .  I shall never forget his happiness .  She saw that he saw Elizabeth , that Elizabeth saw him , that there was complete internal recognition on each side ; she was convinced that he was ready to be acknowledged as an acquaintance , expecting it , and she had the pain of seeing her sister turn away with unalterable coldness .  She expressly conditioned , however , for paying no visits , and would do no more than accompany them to Gray 's in Sackville Street , where Elinor was carrying on a negotiation for the exchange of a few old-fashioned jewels of her mother .  `` I think Lady Russell would like him .  I was repulsed indeed !  `` We had your sister 's card yesterday , and I understood Frederick had a card too , though I did not see it ; and you are disengaged , Frederick , are you not , as well as ourselves ? ''  `` She is pretty , I think ; Anne Elliot ; very pretty , when one comes to look at her .  Marianne was silent ; it was impossible for her to say what she did not feel , however trivial the occasion ; and upon Elinor therefore the whole task of telling lies when politeness required it , always fell .  No , he would sooner quit Kellynch Hall at once , than remain in it on such disgraceful terms . ''  She felt as if the spring would not pass without bringing a crisis , an event , a something to alter her present composed and tranquil state .  When does she try to avoid society , or appear restless and dissatisfied in it ? ''  `` I hope not , I believe not , '' cried Elinor .  He had handed them both in , and placed himself between them ; and in this manner , under these circumstances , full of astonishment and emotion to Anne , she quitted Lyme .  I have no doubt of his having , at times , considerable influence ; but it may be perfectly impossible for him to know beforehand _when_ it will be . ''  In this state Frank Churchill had found her , she trembling and conditioning , they loud and insolent .  He took some music from a chair near the pianoforte , and turning to Emma , said ,  `` I am here on no business of my own , '' said Emma ; `` I am only waiting for my friend .  It had not been forgotten before , but it had been soon acknowledged vain to attempt to fix a day .  Miss Elliot , do you remember our walking together at Lyme , and grieving for him ?  `` In one respect , perhaps , Mr. Elton 's manners are superior to Mr. Knightley 's or Mr. Weston 's .  And at any rate , she lost nothing by continuing the engagement , for she has proved that it fettered neither her inclination nor her actions .  Charles , in the meanwhile , was very decidedly declaring his resolution of calling on his aunt , now that he was so near ; and very evidently , though more fearfully , trying to induce his wife to go too .  Come , what is your competence ? ''  The giant was made out of pillows , with a great , fierce head of paper , and funny clothes .  I 'll fill up on berries and then I 'll go home . ''  She was not immediately able to say anything , and even when her spirits were recovered , she debated for a short time , on the answer it would be most proper to give .  If Mr. and Mrs. Weston will be so obliging as to call here one morning , we may talk it over , and see what can be done . ''  `` Oh , dear , '' cried Harriet , `` now I recollect what you mean ; but I was thinking of something very different at the time .  CHAPTER XIII  She must have been in your own circle ; for as you went with Lady Dalrymple , you were in the seats of grandeur , round the orchestra , of course . ''  She expressed herself most willing , ready , happy to remain .  `` No -- I can not call them gifts ; but they are things that I have valued very much . ''  CHAPTER VI  weep ! ''  I am here till claimed by Colonel and Mrs .  Poor dear Jane was talking of it just now. -- `You must go , ' said she .  I have laid down my plan , and if I am capable of adhering to it -- my feelings shall be governed and my temper improved .  You shall wear the cap and bells , and make laughter for my court .  They talked of coming into this side of the country .  CHAPTER 40  How it would affect Frank was among the earliest thoughts of both .  But he was now married ; and she condemned her heart for the lurking flattery , which so much heightened the pain of the intelligence .  `` But they like it , papa ; there is nothing they like so much .  `` Oh !  `` No , no , '' cried Marianne , `` misery such as mine has no pride .  But so little were they , anymore than the others , inclined to oblige her , that if Sir John dined from home , she might spend a whole day without hearing any other raillery on the subject , than what she was kind enough to bestow on herself .  They added to their house , to their number of servants , to their expenses of every sort ; and by this time were , in fortune and style of living , second only to the family at Hartfield .  Lucy became as necessary to Mrs. Ferrars , as either Robert or Fanny ; and while Edward was never cordially forgiven for having once intended to marry her , and Elinor , though superior to her in fortune and birth , was spoken of as an intruder , SHE was in every thing considered , and always openly acknowledged , to be a favourite child .  He knew they must mean him , for all their shining eyes were looking straight at him .  `` He 's nothing but a great big bully and thief ! ''  I am in no hurry .  Emma called on her the next day , and found her doom already signed with regard to Randalls .  It was very desirable that the connexion should be renewed , if it could be done , without any compromise of propriety on the side of the Elliots . ''  She had previously determined how far she would proceed , on any application of the sort ; and it would be safer for both , to have the judicious law of her own brain laid down with speed. -- She was decided , and thus spoke --  I really can not be plaguing myself for ever with all the new poems and states of the nation that come out .  She looked up at him for a moment , coloured deeply , and played something else .  The grounds were declared to be highly beautiful , and Sir John , who was particularly warm in their praise , might be allowed to be a tolerable judge , for he had formed parties to visit them , at least , twice every summer for the last ten years .  `` Yes , Mammy , '' said Epaminondas .  `` Now you are taking nonsense , Mary , '' was therefore his answer .  I will give you my authority : his friend Colonel Wallis . ''  `` Well , I have so little confidence in my own judgment , that whenever I marry , I hope some body will chuse my wife for me .  About a year after the artificial nightingale came , the Emperor was listening to her waltz tune , when there was a _snap_ and _whir-r-r_ inside the bird , and the music stopped .  They ought to be setting off for Uppercross by one , and in the mean while were to be all together , and out of doors as long as they could .  `` That is a material consideration undoubtedly .  If I come , I shall be cross . ''  I am sure I can not imagine how they will spend half of it ; and as to your giving them more , it is quite absurd to think of it .  `` They are _our_ fish ! ''  The affection of such a man as Mr. Elton would have been too great a distinction. -- She never could have deserved him -- and nobody but so partial and kind a friend as Miss Woodhouse would have thought it possible .  She , therefore , said no more for some time .  By and by along came Little Joe Otter , chuckling to think how he had spoiled Buster Bear 's fishing .  Mrs. Ferrars looked exceedingly angry , and drawing herself up more stiffly than ever , pronounced in retort this bitter philippic , `` Miss Morton is Lord Morton 's daughter . ''  She was sensible that you had never received any proper acknowledgment from herself . ''  I want to have your opinion of her looks .  Excuse me , Miss Dashwood .  Or a trident ?  He is turning away .  Mrs. Goddard , and the teachers , and the girls and the affairs of the school in general , formed naturally a great part of the conversation -- and but for her acquaintance with the Martins of Abbey-Mill Farm , it must have been the whole .  How else could they come ? ''  Mr. and Mrs. Elton appeared ; and all the smiles and the proprieties passed .  oho ! ''  There the news must follow him , but who was to tell it ?  he told me all about it ; that Jane Fairfax and Mr. Frank Churchill are to be married , and that they have been privately engaged to one another this long while .  Angry as she was , the thought of the moment made her resolve to restrain herself when she did speak .  `` I 'll do a thing now that you will not dare to do , '' said the tailor .  APPENDIX  She checked herself just in time .  `` Oh !  `` I love Willoughby , sincerely love him ; and suspicion of his integrity can not be more painful to yourself than to me .  `` Yes , a little -- not much . ''  Did you not think him dreadful low-spirited when he was at Barton ?  I shall see how much I am before-hand with the world in the spring , and we will plan our improvements accordingly . ''  a considerable journey . ''  Long letters from her , quickly succeeding each other , arrived to tell all that she suffered and thought ; to express her anxious solicitude for Marianne , and entreat she would bear up with fortitude under this misfortune .  How could you behave so unfairly by your sister ? ''  Mrs. Dashwood then begged to know to whom she was obliged .  I should not have thought it possible you could forget what passed in this very room about court-plaister , one of the very last times we ever met in it ! -- It was but a very few days before I had my sore throat -- just before Mr. and Mrs. John Knightley came -- I think the very evening. -- Do not you remember his cutting his finger with your new penknife , and your recommending court-plaister ? -- But , as you had none about you , and knew I had , you desired me to supply him ; and so I took mine out and cut him a piece ; but it was a great deal too large , and he cut it smaller , and kept playing some time with what was left , before he gave it back to me .  `` Oh , if I could only help the poor people down there ! ''  In a week or two , I suppose , we shall be going ; and , I trust , Edward will not be very unwilling to accept the charge . ''  She saw them in an instant in their parsonage-house ; saw in Lucy , the active , contriving manager , uniting at once a desire of smart appearance with the utmost frugality , and ashamed to be suspected of half her economical practices ; -- pursuing her own interest in every thought , courting the favour of Colonel Brandon , of Mrs. Jennings , and of every wealthy friend .  Now I say , my dear , in _our_ case , for _lady_ , read -- -- mum !  When her father finished his supper they went together to the garden , and father examined the seedlings carefully .  `` This accounts for something which Mr Elliot said last night , '' cried Anne .  Mrs. Weston 's communications furnished Emma with more food for unpleasant reflection , by increasing her esteem and compassion , and her sense of past injustice towards Miss Fairfax .  There was not a baronet from A to Z whom her feelings could have so willingly acknowledged as an equal .  It exactly answers my idea of a fine country , because it unites beauty with utility -- and I dare say it is a picturesque one too , because you admire it ; I can easily believe it to be full of rocks and promontories , grey moss and brush wood , but these are all lost on me .  you thought nobody could dance because a certain person that shall be nameless is gone ! ''  Had my brother given me some active profession when I was removed at eighteen from the care of Mr. Pratt , I think -- nay , I am sure , it would never have happened ; for though I left Longstaple with what I thought , at the time , a most unconquerable preference for his niece , yet had I then had any pursuit , any object to engage my time and keep me at a distance from her for a few months , I should very soon have outgrown the fancied attachment , especially by mixing more with the world , as in such case I must have done .  May be his sister is worse at Avignon , and has sent for him over .  He would have felt still more queer if he had known that all the time two other fishermen who had been before him were watching him and chuckling to themselves .  I wonder what curacy he will get ! -- Good gracious !  But when they looked about for the real little Nightingale , they could not find her anywhere !  You must know I have a vast dislike to puppies -- quite a horror of them .  `` They are very pretty , ma'am -- a n't they ? ''  He and Mrs. Weston were both dreadfully desponding .  I have found him capable of giving me much information on various subjects ; and he has always answered my inquiries with readiness of good-breeding and good nature . ''  It was Buster Bear .  Knightley. -- It seemed as if there were an instantaneous impression in her favour , as if his eyes received the truth from her 's , and all that had passed of good in her feelings were at once caught and honoured. -- He looked at her with a glow of regard .  That is too young to settle .  The terror which the woman and boy had been creating in Harriet was then their own portion .  of Mr .  A single woman , with a very narrow income , must be a ridiculous , disagreeable old maid !  Composure with a witness !  What has he to do with books ?  I saw the word , and am curious to know how it could be so very entertaining to the one , and so very distressing to the other . ''  But , however , I found afterwards from Patty , that William said it was all the apples of _that_ sort his master had ; he had brought them all -- and now his master had not one left to bake or boil .  `` That is what you have in your head , I know -- and what you would certainly say if my father were not by . ''  This is what we all feel .  She was lost , and when she had scolded back her senses , she found the others still waiting for the carriage , and Mr Elliot ( always obliging ) just setting off for Union Street on a commission of Mrs Clay 's .  And so Tom awoke , and we rose in the dark , And got with our bags and our brushes to work .  broke in Blacky the Crow .  `` Cake ! ''  `Lady Wentworth ' sounds very well .  So then he was monstrous happy , and talked on some time about what they should do , and they agreed he should take orders directly , and they must wait to be married till he got a living .  One other short call in Harley Street , in which Elinor received her brother 's congratulations on their travelling so far towards Barton without any expense , and on Colonel Brandon 's being to follow them to Cleveland in a day or two , completed the intercourse of the brother and sisters in town ; -- and a faint invitation from Fanny , to come to Norland whenever it should happen to be in their way , which of all things was the most unlikely to occur , with a more warm , though less public , assurance , from John to Elinor , of the promptitude with which he should come to see her at Delaford , was all that foretold any meeting in the country .  And when the courtiers came back they found their king kneeling by his throne , absorbed in silent prayer .  In such a frame of mind as she was now in , Elinor had no difficulty in obtaining from her whatever promise she required ; and at her request , Marianne engaged never to speak of the affair to any one with the least appearance of bitterness ; -- to meet Lucy without betraying the smallest increase of dislike to her ; -- and even to see Edward himself , if chance should bring them together , without any diminution of her usual cordiality. -- These were great concessions ; -- but where Marianne felt that she had injured , no reparation could be too much for her to make .  `` Yes , I will help you , '' cried the Cloud once more .  Shortly afterwards Miss Bates , passing near the window , descried Mr. Knightley on horse-back not far off .  `` He did not know what he was talking of , I dare say ; ten to one but he was light-headed at the time .  `` We will not allow her to do such a thing again : '' -- and nodding significantly -- '' there must be some arrangement made , there must indeed .  `` They told me something , '' said Harriet rather hesitatingly ; '' but it is nothing of any consequence . ''  However , she will not find her grandmama at all deafer than she was two years ago ; which is saying a great deal at my mother 's time of life -- and it really is full two years , you know , since she was here .  I have been making discoveries and forming plans , just like yourself , and I must tell them while the idea is fresh .  The simplicity and cheerfulness of her nature , her contented and grateful spirit , were a recommendation to every body , and a mine of felicity to herself .  You could not have gratified me more than by expressing an interest -- .  They took him out of his tub and carried him away , between them .  `` It would not be the nature of any woman who truly loved . ''  Wrapt up in a cloak of politeness , she seemed determined to hazard nothing .  Emma was not required , by any subsequent discovery , to retract her ill opinion of Mrs. Elton .  Then he did the most wicked thing of all .  Nothing to signify .  Then she heard the people shout , `` Is n't it strange !  `` A letter from Uppercross Cottage , Sir . ''  `` By the bye , '' said Frank Churchill to Mrs. Weston presently , `` what became of Mr. Perry 's plan of setting up his carriage ? ''  It may make many things intelligible and excusable which now are not to be understood .  A Miss Hawkins of Bath .  I will take my oath he never dropt a syllable of being tired of her , or of wishing to marry Miss Morton , or any thing like it .  But consider -- you need not be afraid of delegating power to _me_ .  A few doubted Little Joe 's story .  I must get on to Kingston as fast as I can . ''  She should then have heard more : Mrs. Weston would speak to her , with a degree of unreserve which she would not hazard with Isabella ; and , she really believed , would scarcely try to conceal any thing relative to the Churchills from her , excepting those views on the young man , of which her own imagination had already given her such instinctive knowledge .  `` And no great harm if it does , '' said Mr. Woodhouse .  Poor Cherry crouched by the steps , and watched .  I am rather proud of little George .  When Elinor had ceased to rejoice in the dryness of the season , a very awful pause took place .  Men are an ungrateful race .  A man does not recover from such a devotion of the heart to such a woman .  What is the amount of his fortune ? ''  When the little Jackal heard that , he was frightened enough , for once .  `` Yes , ma'am .  You hear me , Epaminondas ? ''  `` What is to be done , my dear Emma ? -- what is to be done ? ''  `` Are you quite sure of it ? ''  But I should have thought her hair had been darker . ''  He might have doubled his presumption to me -- but poor Harriet ! ''  I had not the least idea ! -- Jane took Mrs. Elton aside , and told her at once , that upon thinking over the advantages of Mrs. Smallridge 's situation , she had come to the resolution of accepting it. -- I did not know a word of it till it was all settled . ''  They were come to Bath for a few days with Mrs Musgrove , and were at the White Hart .  Their conversation the preceding evening did not disincline him to seek her again ; and they walked together some time , talking as before of Mr Scott and Lord Byron , and still as unable as before , and as unable as any other two readers , to think exactly alike of the merits of either , till something occasioned an almost general change amongst their party , and instead of Captain Benwick , she had Captain Harville by her side .  Then he was brought and given to the king's daughter , and he became her son .  CHAPTER V  You see , smart as he is and shrewd as he is , Blacky does n't know anything about the meaning of duty , for he never has to work excepting to get enough to eat .  Mr. Harris was punctual in his second visit ; -- but he came to be disappointed in his hopes of what the last would produce .  `` No , '' admitted Charles , `` I do not know that he ever does , in a general way ; but however , it is a very clear thing that he admires you exceedingly .  THE LILY The modest Rose puts forth a thorn , The humble sheep a threat'ning horn : While the Lily white shall in love delight , Nor a thorn nor a threat stain her beauty bright .  She was faithful to her word ; and when Willoughby called at the cottage , the same day , Elinor heard her express her disappointment to him in a low voice , on being obliged to forego the acceptance of his present .  I am half agony , half hope .  `` Had you any idea , '' cried Harriet , `` of his being in love with her ? -- You , perhaps , might. -- You ( blushing as she spoke ) who can see into every body 's heart ; but nobody else -- ''  Her imagination was busy , her reflections were pleasant , and the pain of a sprained ankle was disregarded .  Some lavender drops , however , which she was at length persuaded to take , were of use ; and from that time till Mrs. Jennings returned , she continued on the bed quiet and motionless .  Mrs Harville , her children , and Captain Benwick , remained with Mr Musgrove and Louisa at Uppercross .  Like half the rest of the world , if more than half there be that are clever and good , Marianne , with excellent abilities and an excellent disposition , was neither reasonable nor candid .  And now , poor girl !  You and I shall not want opportunities .  `` Well , sir , '' cried Mr. Weston , `` as I took Miss Taylor away , it is incumbent on me to supply her place , if I can ; and I will step to Mrs. Goddard in a moment , if you wish it . ''  The donkey was slow , and he was hard to ride , but he was better than nothing ; and gradually the lazy man saw the towers of the castle draw nearer .  No ; he was talking to Mrs. Cole -- he was looking on unconcerned ; Jane was asked by somebody else , and he was still talking to Mrs. Cole .  Look , she made me this bow to my hat , and put in the feather last night .  Mrs Smith had been able to tell her what no one else could have done .  They will soon be in Yorkshire .  And , after proceeding a few steps , she added -- `` I stopped you ungraciously , just now , Mr. Knightley , and , I am afraid , gave you pain. -- But if you have any wish to speak openly to me as a friend , or to ask my opinion of any thing that you may have in contemplation -- as a friend , indeed , you may command me. -- I will hear whatever you like .  `` Certainly , ma'am , I shall tell Marianne of it ; but I shall not mention it at present to any body else . ''  The day at Lyme , the fall from the Cobb , might influence her health , her nerves , her courage , her character to the end of her life , as thoroughly as it appeared to have influenced her fate .  beyond anything great !  It was a style of beauty , of which elegance was the reigning character , and as such , she must , in honour , by all her principles , admire it : -- elegance , which , whether of person or of mind , she saw so little in Highbury .  The visit of the Miss Steeles at Barton Park was lengthened far beyond what the first invitation implied .  That was a great success .  A short , a very short time however must now decide what Willoughby 's intentions were ; in all probability he was already in town .  Sometimes one is guided by what they say of themselves , and very frequently by what other people say of them , without giving oneself time to deliberate and judge . ''  `` Yes , your Majesty , '' said the Woodpecker , `` but I had to . ''  `` How delighted I am to see you again !  `` Nor I , '' answered Marianne with energy , `` our situations then are alike .  She was sensible and clever ; but eager in everything : her sorrows , her joys , could have no moderation .  That sentence is very prettily turned .  No , he had been in Devonshire a fortnight .  Harriet said , `` very true , '' and she `` would not think about it ; '' but still she talked of it -- still she could talk of nothing else ; and Emma , at last , in order to put the Martins out of her head , was obliged to hurry on the news , which she had meant to give with so much tender caution ; hardly knowing herself whether to rejoice or be angry , ashamed or only amused , at such a state of mind in poor Harriet -- such a conclusion of Mr. Elton 's importance with her !  `` Quite out of the question , quite out of the question , '' he replied ; -- `` but you must often wish it , I am sure . ''  But let me observe that all histories are against you -- all stories , prose and verse .  But I think the most beautiful thing about her is what I have been telling you : that she loved her mother so well that she gave her whole life to make her happy .  You see , big as he is and strong as he is , Buster Bear is very shy and bashful , and he has no desire to meet Farmer Brown , or Farmer Brown 's boy , or any other of those two-legged creatures called men .  Another pause therefore of many minutes ' duration , succeeded this speech , and Lucy was still the first to end it .  Mr. Frank Churchill to be making such a speech as that to the uncle and aunt , who have brought him up , and are to provide for him ! -- Standing up in the middle of the room , I suppose , and speaking as loud as he could ! -- How can you imagine such conduct practicable ? ''  If there is anything in my story which you know to be either false or improbable , stop me .  She had great pleasure in hearing Frank Churchill talked of ; and , for his sake , greater pleasure than ever in seeing Mr. and Mrs. Weston ; she was very often thinking of him , and quite impatient for a letter , that she might know how he was , how were his spirits , how was his aunt , and what was the chance of his coming to Randalls again this spring .  `` I do pity you .  Miss Dashwood had a delicate complexion , regular features , and a remarkably pretty figure .  He was more engaged with Louisa than with Henrietta .  It was unvarying , warm admiration everywhere ; but this intimate footing was not more than established , when a certain Charles Hayter returned among them , to be a good deal disturbed by it , and to think Captain Wentworth very much in the way .  So seldom that a letter , among the thousands that are constantly passing about the kingdom , is even carried wrong -- and not one in a million , I suppose , actually lost !  `` I am perfectly satisfied , '' replied Emma , with the brightest smiles , `` and most sincerely wish them happy . ''  Elinor sat down to her drawing-table as soon as he was out of the house , busily employed herself the whole day , neither sought nor avoided the mention of his name , appeared to interest herself almost as much as ever in the general concerns of the family , and if , by this conduct , she did not lessen her own grief , it was at least prevented from unnecessary increase , and her mother and sisters were spared much solicitude on her account .  `` Then I take it for granted , '' observed Sir Walter , `` that his face is about as orange as the cuffs and capes of my livery . ''  CHAPTER XVII  `` Oh , thank you , thank you , '' said the little Jackal , `` that makes it _much_ clearer ; but I still do n't _quite_ understand -- forgive my slow mind -- why did you not come out , by yourself ? ''  Lady Russell felt this break-up of the family exceedingly .  The usual character of them has nothing for me .  Captain Wentworth , who had caught her up , knelt with her in his arms , looking on her with a face as pallid as her own , in an agony of silence .  `` He has been wanting to come to us , '' continued Mr. Weston , `` ever since September : every letter has been full of it ; but he can not command his own time .  She read , and was surprized .  It suited Mary best to think Henrietta the one preferred on the very account of Charles Hayter , whose pretensions she wished to see put an end to .  Miss Bates and Miss Fairfax , escorted by the two gentlemen , walked into the room ; and Mrs. Elton seemed to think it as much her duty as Mrs. Weston 's to receive them .  But all the animals were asleep , and nobody at all looked at Little Jack Rollaround except an old White Owl ; and all she said was , `` Who are you ? ''  She needed no time for deliberation or inquiry .  She had already satisfied herself that he thought Harriet a beautiful girl , which she trusted , with such frequent meetings at Hartfield , was foundation enough on his side ; and on Harriet 's there could be little doubt that the idea of being preferred by him would have all the usual weight and efficacy .  Long before I was enough recovered to talk , I was perfectly able to reflect .  She did not imagine that her father had at present an idea of the kind .  said he , `I can fasten the rivet .  `` Why , to own the truth , I am afraid you are rather thrown away , and that with every disposition to bear , there will be nothing to be borne .  every comfort of life knocked off !  They have no mercy on her . ''  CHAPTER 17  A mind lively and at ease , can do with seeing nothing , and can see nothing that does not answer .  But poor Harriet was such an engrossing charge !  Lord Byron 's `` dark blue seas '' could not fail of being brought forward by their present view , and she gladly gave him all her attention as long as attention was possible .  So the postman took the letter to the great burly man who lived in the big house and wore a gold chain round his neck .  `` Oh !  She believed he had been drinking too much of Mr. Weston 's good wine , and felt sure that he would want to be talking nonsense .  She might assist his resolution , or reconcile him to it ; she might give just praise to Harriet , or , by representing to him his own independence , relieve him from that state of indecision , which must be more intolerable than any alternative to such a mind as his. -- They had reached the house .  Happy had it been for her , if her regard for Edward had depended less on his own merit , than on the merit of his nearest relations !  She distrusted the past , if not the present .  Anne did not receive the perfect conviction which the Admiral meant to convey , but it would have been useless to press the enquiry farther .  Then he saw that the door of his house was crushed at the sides and broken , as if something very big had gone through it .  Mr. Woodhouse considered eight persons at dinner together as the utmost that his nerves could bear -- and here would be a ninth -- and Emma apprehended that it would be a ninth very much out of humour at not being able to come even to Hartfield for forty-eight hours without falling in with a dinner-party .  Certainly not a great match for Louisa Musgrove , but a million times better than marrying among the Hayters . ''  I have brought my other son and daughter to see you .  Do n't you , Mr .  `` Rather say your mother 's imprudence , my child , '' said Mrs. Dashwood ; `` SHE must be answerable . ''  Elliot . ''  The visit afforded her many pleasant recollections the next day ; and all that she might be supposed to have lost on the side of dignified seclusion , must be amply repaid in the splendour of popularity .  Oh , Willoughby , Willoughby , could this be yours !  `` That may be -- but not by sketches in Swisserland .  `` A well-looking man , '' said Sir Walter , `` a very well-looking man . ''  Time , a very little time , I tell him , will do everything ; -- Marianne 's heart is not to be wasted for ever on such a man as Willoughby. -- His own merits must soon secure it . ''  Anne had very sincerely rejoiced in there being no means of her going .  `` What an amiable creature I was ! -- No wonder you should hold my speeches in such affectionate remembrance . ''  This discovery laid many smaller matters open .  .  Mrs. Weston was most comfortably pleased on the occasion .  I assure you , I have not seen a soul this whole long morning . ''  `` Oh !  I never saw such fine children in my life. -- I declare I quite doat upon them already , and indeed I am always distractedly fond of children . ''  Mrs Musgrove protests solemnly that she knew nothing of the matter .  Miss Smith , pray take care .  Still , however , she had enough to feel !  `` Between Mr. Frank Churchill and Miss Fairfax ?  He had only himself to please in his choice : his fortune was his own ; for as to Frank , it was more than being tacitly brought up as his uncle 's heir , it had become so avowed an adoption as to have him assume the name of Churchill on coming of age .  He would have given anything to get rid of it .  `` Yes , papa , it is written out in our second page .  `` There is a Jackal in the sugar-cane , '' they said ; `` he will dig holes and destroy the roots ; we must go down and drive him out . ''  At last they began to dance , and when the clock struck two , they danced quite away , out of the window .  `` Here is one , '' said one of the men , `` it is just little enough . ''  She could hardly determine what her own expectation of its event really was ; though she earnestly tried to drive away the notion of its being possible to end otherwise at last , than in the marriage of Edward and Lucy .  The good Moon went along and made a light , and they came to the forest .  They were Little Joe Otter and Buster Bear .  Elinor found that he and Fanny had been in town two days .  She could not be deceived in that .  She now found , that in spite of herself , she had always admitted a hope , while Edward remained single , that something would occur to prevent his marrying Lucy ; that some resolution of his own , some mediation of friends , or some more eligible opportunity of establishment for the lady , would arise to assist the happiness of all .  Men are a cruel breed .  It was a horrid sight ! -- yet when I thought of her to-day as really dying , it was a kind of comfort to me to imagine that I knew exactly how she would appear to those , who saw her last in this world .  Just as they were setting off , the gentlemen returned .  To-night we may have the pleasure of all meeting again at your party , '' ( turning to Anne . )  `` Well , I believe , if you will excuse me , Mr. Knightley , if you will not consider me as doing a very rude thing , I shall take Emma 's advice and go out for a quarter of an hour .  He has been very deceitful !  To walk by the side of this child , and talk to and question her , was the most natural thing in the world , or would have been the most natural , had she been acting just then without design ; and by this means the others were still able to keep ahead , without any obligation of waiting for her .  `` Ah -- well , well ! ''  After the first chat of pleasure he was silent ; and then , in a graver tone , began with ,  And as to Captain Wentworth 's liking Louisa as well as Henrietta , it is nonsense to say so ; for he certainly does like Henrietta a great deal the best .  That young lady , you know , that we have all been so concerned for .  Mrs. Ferrars can never forget that Edward is her son . ''  Mary need not have feared her sister 's being in any degree prepared for the news .  One of his Psalms that everybody loves is a song that David made when he remembered the days before he came to Saul 's camp .  If you open your mouth , you are lost . ''  But this time the rope broke , the Whale turned a somersault , and the Elephant fell over backward .  Neither of them were ever again to be mentioned to Mrs. Ferrars ; and even , if she might hereafter be induced to forgive her son , his wife should never be acknowledged as her daughter , nor be permitted to appear in her presence .  The coming of her sister 's family was so very near at hand , that first in anticipation , and then in reality , it became henceforth her prime object of interest ; and during the ten days of their stay at Hartfield it was not to be expected -- she did not herself expect -- that any thing beyond occasional , fortuitous assistance could be afforded by her to the lovers .  For then his brother 's bow must have given the finishing stroke to what the ill-humour of his mother and sister would have begun .  Frank Churchill hardly knows what to say when you speak of Miss Fairfax 's situation in life .  Her fears and her difficulties were immediately before him .  You , ( to Emma ) , I am certain , will never guess. -- I will tell you. -- M .  The old Alligator was hidden down in the mud at the bottom of the river , and when he heard what the little Jackal said , he thought , `` Aha !  Buster Bear _had_ come to live in the Green Forest , and Farmer Brown 's boy _had_ seen his footprint .  But I hardly know -- the misery that you have inflicted -- I hardly know what could have made it worse . ''  `` I am afraid , '' replied Elinor , `` that the pleasantness of an employment does not always evince its propriety . ''  They might advance rapidly if they would , however ; they must advance somehow or other whether they would or no .  The selfish sagacity of the latter , which had at first drawn Robert into the scrape , was the principal instrument of his deliverance from it ; for her respectful humility , assiduous attentions , and endless flatteries , as soon as the smallest opening was given for their exercise , reconciled Mrs. Ferrars to his choice , and re-established him completely in her favour .  yes , I must be there ; I could not refuse ; and I will keep as much awake as I can ; but I would rather be at home , looking over William Larkins 's week 's account ; much rather , I confess. -- Pleasure in seeing dancing ! -- not I , indeed -- I never look at it -- I do not know who does. -- Fine dancing , I believe , like virtue , must be its own reward .  He treated his people carelessly and his servants cruelly , and everything he wanted he felt that he must have .  How absurd to be resuming the agitation which such an interval had banished into distance and indistinctness !  I was a thief !  `` Thief , thief , thief ! ''  `` What news do you mean ? ''  `` Remember , '' cried Willoughby , `` from whom you received the account .  Margery had never seen anything more wonderful than the little round lettuce-seeds .  Some were very , very ugly , and some were sweet and lovely ; they were all the things the Emperor had done in his life , good and bad .  There must be three months , at least , of deep mourning ; but when they are over , I imagine there will be nothing more to wait for . ''  laughed the lazy man , as he passed his friend .  for himself .  But you are too good for that , I am sure . ''  He was gone long enough to have had a very comfortable meal , and came back all the better -- grown quite cool -- and , with good manners , like himself -- able to draw a chair close to them , take an interest in their employment ; and regret , in a reasonable way , that he should be so late .  She wished , however to see the Crofts , and was glad to be within when the visit was returned .  She was very much affected by the view of his disposition towards her , which all these things made apparent .  So one day , the little old woman made a boy out of gingerbread ; she made him a chocolate jacket , and put raisins on it for buttons ; his eyes were made of fine , fat currants ; his mouth was made of rose-coloured sugar ; and he had a gay little cap of orange sugar-candy .  says I , 'is Mrs. Dashwood ill ? '  Mrs. Jennings came immediately to their room on her return , and without waiting to have her request of admittance answered , opened the door and walked in with a look of real concern .  His dancing proved to be just what she had believed it , extremely good ; and Harriet would have seemed almost too lucky , if it had not been for the cruel state of things before , and for the very complete enjoyment and very high sense of the distinction which her happy features announced .  He saw his son every year in London , and was proud of him ; and his fond report of him as a very fine young man had made Highbury feel a sort of pride in him too .  His professions and his proposals did him no service .  No , he was n't dreaming .  As the darkness gathered , the wee boy laid his head on her lap and kept so still that , at last , she leaned forward to look into his dear round face .  He went to his friend the Camel , and said , -- `` Friend Camel , I know a spot where the sugar-cane grows thick ; I 'll show you the way , if you will take me there . ''  He had condescended to mortgage as far as he had the power , but he would never condescend to sell .  The morning was fine and dry , and Marianne , in her plan of employment abroad , had not calculated for any change of weather during their stay at Cleveland .  But no pot of gold was to be found .  said the Tiger .  Anne was tenderness itself , and she had the full worth of it in Captain Wentworth 's affection .  In Colonel Brandon alone , of all her new acquaintance , did Elinor find a person who could in any degree claim the respect of abilities , excite the interest of friendship , or give pleasure as a companion .  Mrs. Jennings asked her , as soon as she appeared , if she had not been to Allenham ; and Mrs. Palmer laughed so heartily at the question , as to show she understood it .  `` But Mr. Knightley does not want to marry .  there was soon no leisure for quarrelling with Mr. Knightley .  Well , my dear , I wish you joy of it again and again ; and if ever there was a happy couple in the world , I think I shall soon know where to look for them . ''  But her account of every thing leaves so much to be guessed , she is so very reserved , so very unwilling to give the least information about any body , that I really think you may say what you like of your acquaintance with her . ''  We were asked on purpose to be introduced .  Let us have patience .  `` Mrs. Churchill is not much in my good graces , as you may suspect -- but this is quite between ourselves .  Elton. -- This letter tells us -- it is a short letter -- written in a hurry , merely to give us notice -- it tells us that they are all coming up to town directly , on Mrs. Churchill 's account -- she has not been well the whole winter , and thinks Enscombe too cold for her -- so they are all to move southward without loss of time . ''  Poor Edward muttered something , but what it was , nobody knew , not even himself .  The little boy did not like her , so he blew harder , and the trundle-bed boat went sailing through the forest till it came to the end of the world .  She doubted whether she had not transgressed the duty of woman by woman , in betraying her suspicions of Jane Fairfax 's feelings to Frank Churchill .  Had he been in a situation to act independently and marry immediately , it might have been odd that he should leave us without acknowledging everything to me at once : but this is not the case .  What position were you in ? ''  `` I will make the shoes if you will make the coats , '' said her husband .  Sir Walter Elliot , of Kellynch Hall , in Somersetshire , was a man who , for his own amusement , never took up any book but the Baronetage ; there he found occupation for an idle hour , and consolation in a distressed one ; there his faculties were roused into admiration and respect , by contemplating the limited remnant of the earliest patents ; there any unwelcome sensations , arising from domestic affairs changed naturally into pity and contempt as he turned over the almost endless creations of the last century ; and there , if every other leaf were powerless , he could read his own history with an interest which never failed .  `` You are very much mistaken .  Pray sir , '' turning to the waiter , `` did not you hear , did not his servant say whether he belonged to the Kellynch family ? ''  You were single .  And how could it be supposed that his uncle and aunt would spare him again ? '  She came hallooing to the window , `` How do you do , my dear ?  Your sister 's lovely person and interesting manners could not but please me ; and her behaviour to me almost from the first , was of a kind -- It is astonishing , when I reflect on what it was , and what SHE was , that my heart should have been so insensible !  I was dreadfully alarmed yesterday , but the case is very different to-day . ''  The night was cold and stormy .  `` But why were you not there , Edward ? -- Why did you not come ? ''  He never had heard a cry just like it before .  `` I 'm much obliged for the fine breakfast you have given me , '' said Buster in his deepest , most grumbly-rumbly voice .  I perfectly see how the hours passed : that you had always something agreeable to listen to .  Says he to ould Fox thin ; `` Shure an ' it is , me child , '' says she ; `` Have ye the small Rid Hin ? ''  Warmth and enthusiasm did captivate her still .  For the rest of his character and habits , they were marked , as far as Elinor could perceive , with no traits at all unusual in his sex and time of life .  Do you think we could have put radishes in all the rows ? ''  `` It is not that such a circumstance would now make me unhappy , but I can not believe it .  It is a pity they are not knocked on the head at once , before they reach Admiral Baldwin 's age . ''  The communicative lady I learnt , on inquiry , for I stayed in the shop till they were gone , was a Mrs. Ellison , and that , as I have been since informed , is the name of Miss Grey 's guardian . ''  Full of thanks , and full of news , Miss Bates knew not which to give quickest .  The business was finished , and Harriet safe .  Mrs. Dashwood WOULD sit up with her all night ; and Elinor , in compliance with her mother 's entreaty , went to bed .  And they began to pull again .  `` Yes ; but we must not rest our claims on that distinction .  Elsa 's husband grew so proud of her that he went about saying to everybody , `` My grandmother was a fine housekeeper , and my mother was a fine housekeeper , but neither of them could hold a candle to my wife .  `` That 's a splendid idea ! ''  XXII BUSTER BEAR HAS A FIT OF TEMPER A temper is a bad , bad thing When once it gets away .  She was so wretched and so vehement , complained so much of injustice in being expected to go away instead of Anne ; Anne , who was nothing to Louisa , while she was her sister , and had the best right to stay in Henrietta 's stead !  `` I put it on , your Majesty , '' said the Tortoise , `` because I saw the King-crab trailing his three-edged pike . ''  Such a friend as Mrs. Weston was out of the question .  He survived his uncle no longer ; and ten thousand pounds , including the late legacies , was all that remained for his widow and daughters .  I suppose that if Buster Bear should happen along and catch him , he would be stealing from me , according to Little Joe . ''  `` Have they any acquaintance here ? ''  `` I should like to make them some pretty clothes , '' said the wife , `` they are quite naked . ''  `` I guess some one else was hungry too , '' he muttered .  The lazy man sat down in the grass with a discontented sigh .  It was perfectly accordant with that resolution of character which I knew her to possess ; and the secrecy she had maintained , as to any such design in her former letter , was equally descriptive of its anxious delicacy .  Mr. Woodhouse saw the letter , and he says he never saw such a handsome letter in his life . ''  Neither would Mr. Knightley 's downright , decided , commanding sort of manner , though it suits _him_ very well ; his figure , and look , and situation in life seem to allow it ; but if any young man were to set about copying him , he would not be sufferable .  cried Mr .  Can not you guess what this parcel holds ? ''  Where was this superfine , extraordinary sort of gallantry of yours then ? ''  `` I have something to tell you , Emma ; some news . ''  `` I have not wanted syllables where actions have spoken so plainly .  Anne recollected with pleasure the next morning her promise of going to Mrs Smith , meaning that it should engage her from home at the time when Mr Elliot would be most likely to call ; for to avoid Mr Elliot was almost a first object .  But , however , we may have it all over in the evening ; for we shall be quite alone .  For his own sake , I would not have him do so mad a thing . ''  Her unwillingness to quit her mother was her only restorative to calmness ; and at the moment of parting her grief on that score was excessive .  So Epaminondas tied a string around the end of the loaf and took hold of the end of the string and came along home , like this .  Nothing could be pleasanter .  `` She will be all delight and gratitude , but she will tell you nothing .  Marianne would not let her proceed ; -- and Elinor , satisfied that each felt their own error , wished to avoid any survey of the past that might weaken her sister 's spirits ; she , therefore , pursuing the first subject , immediately continued ,  In another minute he will pull me down and gobble me up !  `` By all the world , rather than by his own heart .  He has those to please who must be pleased , and who ( between ourselves ) are sometimes to be pleased only by a good many sacrifices .  `` And Sir John too , '' cried the elder sister , `` what a charming man he is ! ''  `` We can finish this some other time , you know .  Stay down , do n't come so high ! ''  Why did you shout and sing ? ''  Then we 'll see how many fish he will get !  `` I never heard any harm of her ; indeed I hardly ever heard her mentioned ; except that Mrs. Taylor did say this morning , that one day Miss Walker hinted to her , that she believed Mr. and Mrs. Ellison would not be sorry to have Miss Grey married , for she and Mrs. Ellison could never agree . ''  It would be impossible to say what Emma felt , on hearing this -- which of all her unpleasant sensations was uppermost .  said he , in a low voice , to Miss Dashwood , by whom he was sitting .  The mother was knitting a little stocking ; her fingers moved the bright needles ; but her eyes were fixed on the clear evening sky .  I could not stay two minutes .  Mrs. Smith has this morning exercised the privilege of riches upon a poor dependent cousin , by sending me on business to London .  Emma was quite eager to see this superior treasure .  said Emma in a whisper .  I have not seen a creature the whole morning ! ''  She will be extremely sorry to miss seeing you , Miss Woodhouse , but your kindness will excuse her .  The poor beast rushed away from the sound of her words , but in a moment he stumbled into a trap , set by bear-catchers .  The whole country about them abounded in beautiful walks .  `` If such is your way of thinking , '' said Marianne , `` if the loss of what is most valued is so easily to be made up by something else , your resolution , your self-command , are , perhaps , a little less to be wondered at. -- They are brought more within my comprehension . ''  `` What did you hear ? ''  `` Who killed my children while you were taking care of them ? ''  `` To me it is faultless .  Miss Woodhouse , what can we do about that ? ''  Wait only till tomorrow . ''  `` Can we have made a mistake ? ''  There was a little awkwardness at first in their discourse on another subject .  `` Yes , my dear , if there is time. -- But -- ( in a very depressed tone ) -- she is coming for only one week .  `` You are very wrong , Mr. Willoughby , very blamable , '' said Elinor , while her voice , in spite of herself , betrayed her compassionate emotion ; `` you ought not to speak in this way , either of Mrs. Willoughby or my sister .  I never heard of such a thing .  `` Well , as your joint acquaintance , then , I shall be very happy to see Captain Benwick . ''  `` I am afraid , none at all . ''  The first ten minutes had its awkwardness and its emotion .  `` Indeed , I do say it .  The little Jackal was , as you know , exceedingly fond of shell-fish , especially of river crabs .  Elinor repeated the particulars of it , as she had given them to John ; and their effect on Robert , though very different , was not less striking than it had been on HIM .  There is something so shocking in a child 's being taken away from his parents and natural home !  The daughter of beauty wip 'd her pitying tears with her white veil , And said , Alas !  This was too loud a call for a compliment to be passed by , and Mr. Weston , with a very good grace , immediately exclaimed ,  She was to have a golden perch near the Emperor 's bed , and a little golden cage , and was to be allowed to go out twice every day .  she cried with more thorough gaiety , `` if you fancy your brother does not do me justice , only wait till my dear father is in the secret , and hear his opinion .  `` I could meet him no other way .  said she , seating herself between Elinor and Marianne , `` for it is so bad a day I was afraid you might not come , which would be a shocking thing , as we go away again tomorrow .  She had no natural connexions to assist her even with their counsel , and she could not afford to purchase the assistance of the law .  I once knew a lady who in temper and mind greatly resembled your sister , who thought and judged like her , but who from an inforced change -- from a series of unfortunate circumstances '' -- Here he stopt suddenly ; appeared to think that he had said too much , and by his countenance gave rise to conjectures , which might not otherwise have entered Elinor 's head .  Margery flew back to her mother , to say that the first seeds were up .  He was to leave Bath at nine this morning , and does not come back till to-morrow . ''  So they came down , with sticks and stones .  I am not particularly disposed to favour a tenant .  what shall I do ? ''  Which of them is it ? -- I charge you by all that is sacred , not to attempt concealment . ''  `` But if I do , I shall be crosser still .  And she seized the little Half-Chick by his one wing and threw him into a kettle of water on the fire .  Now Buster had reached the Old Pasture just as jolly , round , red Mr. Sun had crept out of bed , and he had fully made up his mind that he would be back in the Green Forest before Mr. Sun had climbed very far up in the blue , blue sky .  CHAPTER XV  `` Ay , ay , Miss Louisa Musgrove , that is the name .  Her arm was pressed again , as he added , in a more broken and subdued accent , `` The feelings of the warmest friendship -- Indignation -- Abominable scoundrel ! ''  They rolled past the town hall and the schoolhouse and the church ; but nobody saw little Jack Rollaround , because everybody was in bed , asleep .  `` But I am very much , and without being at all ashamed of it .  `` What does all that signify ?  They tried in ever so many ways to show him how friendly they felt and went quite out of their way to do him favors .  The son , a steady respectable young man , was amply provided for by the fortune of his mother , which had been large , and half of which devolved on him on his coming of age .  What do you think ?  You can imagine what an artful man would do ; and with this guide , perhaps , may recollect what you have seen him do . ''  Nothing new was heard by them , for a day or two afterwards , of affairs in Harley Street , or Bartlett 's Buildings .  Why can not the Ear be closed to its own destruction ?  `` He will not come in , as Mrs. Jennings is from home . ''  said the little girl , `` she is going to sing . ''  Suppose I go and invite Miss Bates to join us ? ''  These feelings rapidly restored his comfort , while Mrs. Weston , of a more apprehensive disposition , foresaw nothing but a repetition of excuses and delays ; and after all her concern for what her husband was to suffer , suffered a great deal more herself .  With a hasty exclamation of Misery , and a sign to her sister not to follow her , she directly got up and hurried out of the room .  An abominable puppy ! -- You know who I mean ( nodding to her husband ) .  The shock which her marriage had given me , '' he continued , in a voice of great agitation , `` was of trifling weight -- was nothing to what I felt when I heard , about two years afterwards , of her divorce .  What feelings have they , the season , the air altogether inspired !  Well , I wish them happy with all my heart .  Can they have quarrelled ?  The farther he went down the Laughing Brook , the more puzzled Farmer Brown's boy grew .  But it is done ; we are reconciled , dearer , much dearer , than ever , and no moment 's uneasiness can ever occur between us again .  `` You are very good , I hope it wo n't hurt your eyes -- will you ring the bell for some working candles ?  `` If that is all , you may be satisfied already , -- for Marianne DOES -- she has LONG forgiven you . ''  He went away without noticing , -- he was in such a hurry .  `` Have you never at any time had reason to think that he admired her , or that she admired him ? ''  Facts shall speak .  Chapter 16  `` M.D . ''  XXI SAMMY JAY MAKES THINGS WORSE FOR BUSTER BEAR `` Thief , thief , thief !  Elton 's absence just at this time was the very thing to be desired .  Anne had never entered Kellynch since her quitting Lady Russell 's house in September .  CHAPTER VII  `` Oh , I do n't know _why_ '' said the little Jackal , -- '' I always sing after dinner ! ''  `` I did not know , '' said she , `` that you were even acquainted till the other day . ''  That would be a noble thing , indeed , for Henrietta !  It will be a great deal better than leaving him only with Jemima .  `` I would not ask such a question for the world .  I hope you find a chair .  She wished him not so near her .  The Lord is my shepherd ; I shall not want .  For those little beet leaves were almost round , and they grew two on a stem , precisely like the lettuce and the radish ; except for the size , all three rows looked alike .  I want to roll through the town , so that the people can see me ! ''  Her joy was of a different kind , and led to any thing rather than to gaiety .  `` Oh !  `` Ca n't you see that the door shut me in ? ''  `` At Marlborough ! ''  Depend upon it , whatever esteem Mr Elliot may have for his own situation in life now , as a young man he had not the smallest value for it .  Could Anne wonder that her father and sister were happy ?  You are not striving to look taller than any body else .  They talk and laugh a great deal too much for me .  `` Part of my lace is gone , '' said she , `` and I do not know how I am to contrive .  If one could ascertain what the chief of them -- the Coles , for instance .  Mrs. Elton began to think she had been wrong in disclaiming so warmly .  Let me recommend Bath to you .  If I had not promoted Mr. Weston 's visits here , and given many little encouragements , and smoothed many little matters , it might not have come to any thing after all .  Your sisters will marry , and it will be gone for ever .  When he did perceive and acknowledge her , however , it was done with all his usual frankness and good humour .  Charles was to return to Lyme the same afternoon , and his father had at first half a mind to go with him , but the ladies could not consent .  But Mr Elliot was not done with .  `` Your Majesty knows , '' said the Woodpecker , `` that I am Chief Beater of the War-gong , and I sounded the gong because I saw the Great Lizard wearing his sword . ''  But I kept my eye on it ; and , as soon as I dared , caught it up , and never parted with it again from that moment . ''  The brow of the hill , where they remained , was a cheerful spot : Louisa returned ; and Mary , finding a comfortable seat for herself on the step of a stile , was very well satisfied so long as the others all stood about her ; but when Louisa drew Captain Wentworth away , to try for a gleaning of nuts in an adjoining hedge-row , and they were gone by degrees quite out of sight and sound , Mary was happy no longer ; she quarrelled with her own seat , was sure Louisa had got a much better somewhere , and nothing could prevent her from going to look for a better also .  I was privy to all the fors and againsts ; I was the friend to whom he confided his hopes and plans ; and though I did not know his wife previously , her inferior situation in society , indeed , rendered that impossible , yet I knew her all her life afterwards , or at least till within the last two years of her life , and can answer any question you may wish to put . ''  Edward brought us a most charming account of the place : the most complete thing of its kind , he said , that ever was , and you all seemed to enjoy it beyond any thing .  He paid her only the compliment of attention ; and she felt a respect for him on the occasion , which the others had reasonably forfeited by their shameless want of taste .  Tired with kisses sweet , They agree to meet When the silent sleep Waves o'er heaven 's deep , And the weary tired wanderers weep .  Lucy bit her lip , and looked angrily at her sister .  The word curricle made Charles Musgrove jump up that he might compare it with his own ; the servant in mourning roused Anne 's curiosity , and the whole six were collected to look , by the time the owner of the curricle was to be seen issuing from the door amidst the bows and civilities of the household , and taking his seat , to drive off .  You must be satisfied with such admiration as I can honestly give .  Fetch Miss Bates .  I am quite enough in love .  The next morning brought another short note from Marianne -- still affectionate , open , artless , confiding -- everything that could make MY conduct most hateful .  `` Thank you , sir , thank you ; I am going this moment myself ; and I think the sooner _you_ go the better .  Pray , pray attempt it .  `` Good or bad ? ''  You want nothing but patience -- or give it a more fascinating name , call it hope .  Then , when the Philistines saw that their champion was dead , they fled .  Your father thought only of THEM .  Once he thought he would play a trick on the villagers and have some fun at their expense .  It was painful to him even to keep a third cousin to himself .  At his and Mrs. Jennings 's united request in return , Mrs. Dashwood was prevailed on to accept the use of his carriage on her journey back , for the better accommodation of her sick child ; and the Colonel , at the joint invitation of Mrs. Dashwood and Mrs. Jennings , whose active good-nature made her friendly and hospitable for other people as well as herself , engaged with pleasure to redeem it by a visit at the cottage , in the course of a few weeks .  I am not sensible of having done anything wrong in walking over Mrs. Smith 's grounds , or in seeing her house .  `` Yes , '' said his mother ; `` have you got the little Red Hen ? ''  To have been described long ago to a recent acquaintance , by nameless people , is irresistible ; and Anne was all curiosity .  How could you be so unfeeling to Miss Bates ?  `` Who is pulling me ? ''  Elinor could not deny the truth of this , and she tried to find in it a motive sufficient for their silence .  `` She has had the advantage , you know , of practising on me , '' she continued -- '' like La Baronne d'Almane on La Comtesse d'Ostalis , in Madame de Genlis ' Adelaide and Theodore , and we shall now see her own little Adelaide educated on a more perfect plan . ''  He could now , without the drawback of a single unpleasant surmise , without a glance forward at any possible treachery in his guest , give way to all his natural kind-hearted civility in solicitous inquiries after Mr. Frank Churchill 's accommodation on his journey , through the sad evils of sleeping two nights on the road , and express very genuine unmixed anxiety to know that he had certainly escaped catching cold -- which , however , he could not allow him to feel quite assured of himself till after another night .  I thought it must be so .  Part of her meaning was to conceal some favourite thoughts of her own and Mr. Weston 's on the subject , as much as possible .  On that subject poor Miss Bates was very unhappy , and very communicative ; Jane would hardly eat any thing : -- Mr. Perry recommended nourishing food ; but every thing they could command ( and never had any body such good neighbours ) was distasteful .  `` I 'll keep watch , and as soon as I see him coming , I 'll drive out all the fish , just as I did to-day .  This wretched note was the finale of Emma 's breakfast .  Nothing could do away the knowledge of what the latter had suffered through his means , nor remove the guilt of his conduct towards Eliza .  Smith had somehow or other been informed , I imagine by some distant relation , whose interest it was to deprive me of her favour , of an affair , a connection -- but I need not explain myself farther , '' he added , looking at her with an heightened colour and an enquiring eye -- '' your particular intimacy -- you have probably heard the whole story long ago . ''  One day only had passed since Anne 's conversation with Mrs Smith ; but a keener interest had succeeded , and she was now so little touched by Mr Elliot 's conduct , except by its effects in one quarter , that it became a matter of course the next morning , still to defer her explanatory visit in Rivers Street .  no , indeed . ''  Mr. Knightley could not be there too often ; he should be glad to see him every day ; -- but they did see him every day as it was. -- Why could not they go on as they had done ?  `` Oh !  The parties stood thus :  Of course you could .  `` Oh , Brother Jackal , dear Brother Jackal , '' said the Brahmin , `` give us your opinion !  `` My dear Jane , what is this I hear ? -- Going to the post-office in the rain ! -- This must not be , I assure you. -- You sad girl , how could you do such a thing ? -- It is a sign I was not there to take care of you . ''  For a few moments every one was silent .  said she. -- '' To chuse to remain here month after month , under privations of every sort !  `` My dear , '' was Mrs Smith 's reply , `` there was nothing else to be done .  `` But , could you be comfortable yourself , to be spending the whole evening away from the poor boy ? ''  `` But Brother Tiger , '' said the Brahmin , `` you know if I should let you out , you would spring on me and eat me up . ''  He was sitting in an attitude of deep meditation , and seemed not to hear her .  Mr. Elton was the very person fixed on by Emma for driving the young farmer out of Harriet 's head .  The man 's weight kept the harrow steady , and let the teeth of the rake scratch and cut the ground up , so that it did not stay in ridges .  She supposed she must say more before she were entitled to his clemency ; but it was a hard case to be obliged still to lower herself in his opinion .  But , '' ( checking himself ) , `` you will not think it a good place , for yours were always kept in the butler 's room .  `` Uppercross , the necessity of some one 's going to Uppercross ; the news to be conveyed ; how it could be broken to Mr and Mrs Musgrove ; the lateness of the morning ; an hour already gone since they ought to have been off ; the impossibility of being in tolerable time . ''  `` Is your sister ill ? ''  No more would Sir John , nor my daughters , for they are all very thoughtful and considerate ; especially if I give them a hint , as I certainly will .  Tell me that not only your house will remain the same , but that I shall ever find you and yours as unchanged as your dwelling ; and that you will always consider me with the kindness which has made everything belonging to you so dear to me . ''  asked Farmer Brown 's boy of his mother .  It was , perhaps , one of those cases in which advice is good or bad only as the event decides ; and for myself , I certainly never should , in any circumstance of tolerable similarity , give such advice .  How many days was it , my dear , between the first time of my seeing you and our sitting down together in our lodgings at North Yarmouth ? ''  I love you like the little bird That picks up crumbs around the door . ''  Father tied one end of a cord to a little stake , and drove the stake in the ground at one end of the garden .  She sang so beautifully that you have never in all your life heard anything like it .  The events of this evening were not very remarkable .  On Easter night , as he crept to his bed of straw , he wept , not because he was so wretched , but because he had not been a better king when power was his .  Quite the queen of the evening ! -- Well , here we are at the passage .  They took her lightly back , Between the night and morrow ; They thought that she was fast asleep , But she was dead with sorrow .  I do congratulate you , Mrs. Weston , most warmly .  `` There now , '' -- said his lady , `` you see Mr. Palmer expects you ; so you can not refuse to come . ''  `` Is there no chance of my seeing you and your sisters in town this winter , Miss Dashwood ? ''  I should not have used the expression .  And , sure enough , the little Nightingale began to sing .  `` He should be happy to see Mrs. Goddard .  He was under my uncle 's care , you know , a considerable while . ''  He enquired after you very particularly ; asked even if you were personally altered , little suspecting that to my eye you could never alter . ''  It was evident that he was unhappy ; she wished it were equally evident that he still distinguished her by the same affection which once she had felt no doubt of inspiring ; but hitherto the continuance of his preference seemed very uncertain ; and the reservedness of his manner towards her contradicted one moment what a more animated look had intimated the preceding one .  Her usefulness to little Charles would always give some sweetness to the memory of her two months ' visit there , but he was gaining strength apace , and she had nothing else to stay for .  He will be there in February , otherwise London would have no charms for me ; I have not spirits for it . ''  In another moment , however , she found herself in the state of being released from him ; some one was taking him from her , though he had bent down her head so much , that his little sturdy hands were unfastened from around her neck , and he was resolutely borne away , before she knew that Captain Wentworth had done it .  She means it , I know . ''  And all the time he flew about among the trees near the edge of the Green Forest as if so excited that he could n't keep still .  You must not confound my meaning .  I think very well of Mr. Elton , and this is the only way I have of doing him a service . ''  My , my , my , how good some berries would taste !  Dear Miss Elliot , may I not say father and son ? ''  But you had better go with Mrs. Weston and hear the instrument . ''  But so it ought to be ; they are people of large fortune , they are related to you , and every civility and accommodation that can serve to make your situation pleasant might be reasonably expected .  On his big , green lily-pad sat Grandfather Frog .  `` Did n't he catch my fish and eat them ? ''  It was through a series of strange blunders ! ''  Her heart was grieved for a state which seemed but the more pitiable from this sort of irritation of spirits , inconsistency of action , and inequality of powers ; and it mortified her that she was given so little credit for proper feeling , or esteemed so little worthy as a friend : but she had the consolation of knowing that her intentions were good , and of being able to say to herself , that could Mr. Knightley have been privy to all her attempts of assisting Jane Fairfax , could he even have seen into her heart , he would not , on this occasion , have found any thing to reprove .  `` Oh , no ; but if mama had not objected to it , I dare say he would have liked it of all things .  When you have been here a little longer , Miss Fairfax , you will understand that Mr. Elton is the standard of perfection in Highbury , both in person and mind . ''  Mr. Knightley , however , shewed no triumphant happiness .  I'll breakfast at another part of the river . ''  `` Do tell me how it first came into your head . ''  Her letter was scarcely finished , when a rap foretold a visitor , and Colonel Brandon was announced .  She took hardly any notice of Charles Hayter yesterday .  This is always my luck .  To Mr. John Knightley was she indebted for her first idea on the subject , for the first start of its possibility .  I speak as a friend , Emma .  I made her take her shawl -- for the evenings are not warm -- her large new shawl -- Mrs. Dixon 's wedding-present. -- So kind of her to think of my mother !  `` Oh , '' cried Marianne , `` with what transporting sensation have I formerly seen them fall !  I have no idea of that sort of thing .  Well , and how did Mr. Churchill take it ? ''  He doth give his joy to all : He becomes an infant small , He becomes a man of woe , He doth feel the sorrow too .  Some minutes passed in this unpleasant silence , with only one attempt on Emma 's side to talk of the weather , but he made no answer .  no , no ; -- every feeling revolts .  Nature gave you understanding : -- Miss Taylor gave you principles .  They all left him then and returned .  `` Why did you call , Mr .  Jane speaks so distinct !  `` Perhaps you think I am come on purpose to quarrel with you , knowing Weston to be out , and that you must still fight your own battle . ''  `` Bartlett 's Building , March .  I walked and rode a great deal ; and the more I saw , the more I found to admire . ''  Harriet seemed ready to worship her friend for a sentence so satisfactory ; and Emma was only saved from raptures and fondness , which at that moment would have been dreadful penance , by the sound of her father 's footsteps .  `` I should hope not ; but really when I look around among my acquaintance , I tremble .  `` But really , I am half ashamed , and wish I had never taken up the idea . ''  An ' thin he whiruled around , An ' round an ' round an ' round , Fashter an ' fashter an ' fashter , Afther his tail on the ground .  But she did n't .  What a pity that we should not have been introduced to each other !  `` Little Half-Chick , little Half-Chick , '' said the Wind , `` when I was in trouble you would not help me ! ''  `` Certainly , ma'am , '' replied Elinor , not hearing much of what she said , and more anxious to be alone , than to be mistress of the subject .  Here is my sketch of the fourth , who was a baby .  Woodhouse ? -- I am so glad to hear such a good account .  Perry . ''  Captain Wentworth , after being unseen and unheard of at Uppercross for two whole days , appeared again among them to justify himself by a relation of what had kept him away .  `` I wish it could be so easily settled .  When he had roared a few times all the little people of the jungle were so frightened that they came out of their holes and hiding-places and ran , this way and that , to get away .  Little Joe sprang at him angrily , but Shadow was too quick and darted away .  I have been always telling you , my love , that I had no idea of the change being so very material to Hartfield as you apprehended ; and now you have Emma 's account , I hope you will be satisfied . ''  `` And so , ma'am , all these thing considered , '' said Mrs Musgrove , in her powerful whisper , `` though we could have wished it different , yet , altogether , we did not think it fair to stand out any longer , for Charles Hayter was quite wild about it , and Henrietta was pretty near as bad ; and so we thought they had better marry at once , and make the best of it , as many others have done before them .  At first , she thought it was a good deal ; and afterwards , but little .  said Mrs. Jennings , without attending to her daughter 's reproof .  I shall not stop .  It was natural to have some civil hopes on the subject , and he said ,  You are your mother 's self in countenance and disposition ; and if I might be allowed to fancy you such as she was , in situation and name , and home , presiding and blessing in the same spot , and only superior to her in being more highly valued !  My dear , did you change your stockings ? ''  And I protest , if I had any money to spare , I should buy a little land and build one myself , within a short distance of London , where I might drive myself down at any time , and collect a few friends about me , and be happy .  `` Henry is a fine boy , but John is very like his mama .  But I do not understand how the room at the Crown can be safer for you than your father 's house . ''  `` I never had such bad luck in all my life before .  When wolves and tigers howl for prey , They pitying stand and weep ; Seeking to drive their thirst away , And keep them from the sheep .  He gave her to understand that he had looked at her with some earnestness .  cried Sir Walter .  said the little Jackal .  `` It is a most repulsive quality , indeed , '' said he .  said the prince to himself .  `` No , no , you must not ; you shall not , indeed . ''  I will tell it to you now , and then you may learn it , to say for yourselves .  But when there is plenty of money on one side , and next to none on the other , Lord bless you !  Isabella then went to Emma ; but Emma could not so entirely give up the hope of their being all able to get away ; and they were still discussing the point , when Mr. Knightley , who had left the room immediately after his brother 's first report of the snow , came back again , and told them that he had been out of doors to examine , and could answer for there not being the smallest difficulty in their getting home , whenever they liked it , either now or an hour hence .  The joy , the gratitude , the exquisite delight of her sensations may be imagined .  Weston may grow cross from the wantonness of comfort , or his son may plague him . ''  `` Surely you know it , '' said the good king ; `` it is for my only son , Prince Cherry ; do for him whatever you would have done for me . ''  the coldness of a Jane Fairfax ! -- Harriet is worth a hundred such -- And for a wife -- a sensible man 's wife -- it is invaluable .  I hope you will be a great deal at Combe Magna .  `` She really left nothing for Mary to do .  `` You have some news to hear , now you are come back , that will rather surprize you . ''  `` Mamma , you are not doing me justice .  So surprised at their coming to town , though it was what she had rather expected all along ; so angry at their accepting her mother 's invitation after having declined her own , though at the same time she would never have forgiven them if they had not come !  I brought her into Plymouth ; and here another instance of luck .  His fun began when he surprised Little Joe Otter on the bank of a little pool in the Laughing Brook and Little Joe was so frightened that he dropped a fat trout he had just caught .  You must know best what will be its effect ; but had I not seriously , and from my heart believed it might be of service , might lessen her regrets , I would not have suffered myself to trouble you with this account of my family afflictions , with a recital which may seem to have been intended to raise myself at the expense of others . ''  I b'lieve our time has come !  This was even better than the brown sugar .  Emma made as slight a reply as she could ; but it was fully sufficient for Mrs. Elton , who only wanted to be talking herself .  But , perhaps -- I may be equally in the way here .  Ah !  Has not his behaviour to Marianne and to all of us , for at least the last fortnight , declared that he loved and considered her as his future wife , and that he felt for us the attachment of the nearest relation ?  What Mrs. Ferrars would say and do , though there could not be a doubt of its nature , she was anxious to hear ; and still more anxious to know how Edward would conduct himself .  But this was not all which they had to make them happy .  Well , Miss Woodhouse , is he like what you expected ?  `` Elinor , I have been cruelly used ; but not by Willoughby . ''  Charlotte laughed heartily to think that her husband could not get rid of her ; and exultingly said , she did not care how cross he was to her , as they must live together .  Except the Sucklings and Bragges , there is not such another nursery establishment , so liberal and elegant , in all Mrs. Elton 's acquaintance .  No one , at least , can think I have not done enough for them : even themselves , they can hardly expect more . ''  said Mrs. Dashwood , when he was leaving them .  to be sure , '' cried Emma , `` it is always incomprehensible to a man that a woman should ever refuse an offer of marriage .  And lay me down in thy cold bed , and leave my shining lot .  `` Yes , but I had only the credit of servilely copying such sentences as I was ashamed to put my name to .  CHAPTER 38  She and Mrs. Weston were obliged to be almost always either talking together or silent together .  It began to rain , not much , but enough to make shelter desirable for women , and quite enough to make it very desirable for Miss Elliot to have the advantage of being conveyed home in Lady Dalrymple 's carriage , which was seen waiting at a little distance ; she , Anne , and Mrs Clay , therefore , turned into Molland 's , while Mr Elliot stepped to Lady Dalrymple , to request her assistance .  `` Poor girl ! ''  `` Yes , '' said Death ; and the little Nightingale bought the Emperor 's crown for a song .  But if you come one second after midnight , it will be too late . ''  He is not a young man with whom one can be intimately acquainted in a short time , but I have seen enough of him to wish him well for his own sake , and as a friend of yours , I wish it still more .  In spite of her vexation , she could not help feeling it almost ridiculous , that she should have the very same distressing and delicate office to perform by Harriet , which Mrs. Weston had just gone through by herself .  said the lords and ladies , `` that must be the Nightingale ; what a large voice for so small a creature ! ''  Every thing declared it ; his own attentions , his father 's hints , his mother-in-law 's guarded silence ; it was all in unison ; words , conduct , discretion , and indiscretion , told the same story .  Mrs. Goddard 's school was in high repute -- and very deservedly ; for Highbury was reckoned a particularly healthy spot : she had an ample house and garden , gave the children plenty of wholesome food , let them run about a great deal in the summer , and in winter dressed their chilblains with her own hands .  Prescriptions poured in from all quarters , and as usual , were all declined .  `` My dear Emma , '' said he at last , with earnest kindness , `` do you think you perfectly understand the degree of acquaintance between the gentleman and lady we have been speaking of ? ''  And we will make the dear little love some amends for her disappointment to-morrow , and then I hope she will not much mind it . ''  `` I never was in better health . ''  `` She would rather not be in his company more than she could help .  And one day the Lion was so near that the little mother Jackal grew frightened ; she said , -- `` Oh , Father Jackal , Father Jackal !  They had too much sense to be desirable companions to the former ; and by the latter they were considered with a jealous eye , as intruding on THEIR ground , and sharing the kindness which they wanted to monopolize .  A fine open sea , he says , and very pure air .  He was brilliant , he was headstrong .  There are moments when the extent of it seems doubtful ; and till his sentiments are fully known , you can not wonder at my wishing to avoid any encouragement of my own partiality , by believing or calling it more than it is .  It 's a fact .  No invitation came amiss to her .  Elinor thought she could distinguish a large W in the direction ; and no sooner was it complete than Marianne , ringing the bell , requested the footman who answered it to get that letter conveyed for her to the two-penny post .  She then found them talking of `` Frederick . ''  One can not have too large a party .  He will be glad to hear it . ''  She had never seen Frank Churchill so silent and stupid .  There were strings of white fluffy stuff drooping around him ; his twigs held little gold nuts and pink , rosy balls and silver stars ; he had pretty little pink and white candles in his arms ; but last , and most wonderful of all , the children hung a beautiful white , floating doll-angel over his head !  no -- a very bad plan .  Mr. Elton was only too happy .  Not above ten miles , I dare say . ''  Some are gone to the ponds , and some to the lime walk .  Then I could keep the house ! ''  `` Perry ! ''  -- `` He was generally thought so . ''  This is not the place for explanations .  Do not mistake me , however .  `` So they will , my dear .  Leave me , and go to him .  at present I ask no more . ''  At last Emma attacked her on another ground .  `` Yes , your Majesty , '' said the Great Lizard ; `` but I had to . ''  thought the little Jackal ; `` the big Alligator has my paw in his mouth !  to which his prompt reply was , `` Most readily , Mrs. Weston , if you will dance with me . ''  cried Harriet indignantly. -- '' Oh !  She felt that she could so much more depend upon the sincerity of those who sometimes looked or said a careless or a hasty thing , than of those whose presence of mind never varied , whose tongue never slipped .  The prince turned sharply , but no one was to be seen ; yet he recognised the voice as that of Fairy Candide .  Seldom , very seldom , does complete truth belong to any human disclosure ; seldom can it happen that something is not a little disguised , or a little mistaken ; but where , as in this case , though the conduct is mistaken , the feelings are not , it may not be very material. -- Mr. Knightley could not impute to Emma a more relenting heart than she possessed , or a heart more disposed to accept of his .  Perhaps he had quitted the field , had given Louisa up , had ceased to love , had found he did not love her .  `` I do not know what your opinion may be , Mrs. Weston , '' said Mr. Knightley , `` of this great intimacy between Emma and Harriet Smith , but I think it a bad thing . ''  The little old woman and the little old man ran after him as fast as they could , but he just laughed , and shouted , -- `` Run !  You and I need not be afraid .  That very evening , Margery 's father took pencil and paper , and drew out a plan for her garden ; first , they talked it all over , then he drew what they decided on ; it looked like the diagram on the next page .  Soup too !  I wish young ladies had not such a number of fine Christian names .  She felt it at her heart .  In the midst of it , the jester broke through the crowd and threw himself before the Pope .  Elinor , who saw as plainly by this , as if she had seen the direction , that it must come from Willoughby , felt immediately such a sickness at heart as made her hardly able to hold up her head , and sat in such a general tremour as made her fear it impossible to escape Mrs. Jenning 's notice .  Without emulating the feelings of an Emma towards her Henry , she would have attended on Louisa with a zeal above the common claims of regard , for his sake ; and she hoped he would not long be so unjust as to suppose she would shrink unnecessarily from the office of a friend .  She could only give him a look ; but it was such a look as she thought must restore him to his senses , and then left the sofa , removing to a seat by her sister , and giving her all her attention .  When he had yelled and Buster Bear had suddenly appeared , struggling to get off the pail which had caught over his head , Farmer Brown 's boy had been too frightened to even move .  It was the voice of Farmer Brown 's boy .  No wonder he felt good !  `` Perhaps , '' cried Anne , struck by a sudden idea , `` you sometimes spoke of me to Mr Elliot ? ''  `` You sent me such a good account of yourself on Thursday ! ''  They had looked forward and arranged everything before the others began to reflect .  She was a very pretty girl , and her beauty happened to be of a sort which Emma particularly admired .  The Cloud then shewd his golden head & his bright form emerg 'd .  `` If I made myself intelligible yesterday , this letter will be expected ; but expected or not , I know it will be read with candour and indulgence. -- You are all goodness , and I believe there will be need of even all your goodness to allow for some parts of my past conduct. -- But I have been forgiven by one who had still more to resent .  if he should be so far stimulated by your genius as to learn to draw himself , how delightful it would be ! ''  `` It is perfectly true. -- Colonel Brandon has given the living of Delaford to Edward . ''  I shall always have a great regard for the Miss Martins , especially Elizabeth , and should be very sorry to give them up , for they are quite as well educated as me .  He kissed the child , and by the hand led , And to his mother brought , Who in sorrow pale , through the lonely dale , The little boy weeping sought .  Well , I shall bring Jane with me -- Jane and her aunt. -- The rest I leave to you .  `` I have scarce had the pleasure of seeing you , Miss Woodhouse , '' she shortly afterwards began , `` since the party to Box Hill .  He never read the Romance of the Forest , nor The Children of the Abbey .  `` He did .  `` But there may be pretty good guessing .  When they came to the steps , leading upwards from the beach , a gentleman , at the same moment preparing to come down , politely drew back , and stopped to give them way .  He had inquired after her , she found , slightly , as might suit a former slight acquaintance , seeming to acknowledge such as she had acknowledged , actuated , perhaps , by the same view of escaping introduction when they were to meet .  I shall have to make these figs roll about , so that he will think the wind moves them . ''  `` Yes , that he will ! ''  Warmth and tenderness of heart , with an affectionate , open manner , will beat all the clearness of head in the world , for attraction , I am sure it will .  `` We must be decided , and without the loss of another minute .  But always when they saw the Little Fir Tree they shook their heads and said , -- `` It is too little , too little . ''  The only thing I do not thoroughly like is , that she seems to be sitting out of doors , with only a little shawl over her shoulders -- and it makes one think she must catch cold . ''  Little Joe Otter gave a frightened squeal and without even turning to see who was speaking dropped his fish and dived headfirst into the Laughing Brook .  And as it is -- only half blood ! -- But you have such a generous spirit ! ''  But it was a matter of great consolation to her , that what brought evil to herself would bring good to her sister ; and Elinor , on the other hand , suspecting that it would not be in her power to avoid Edward entirely , comforted herself by thinking , that though their longer stay would therefore militate against her own happiness , it would be better for Marianne than an immediate return into Devonshire .  And it is not merely in its follies , that they are well read ; for they see it occasionally under every circumstance that can be most interesting or affecting .  Harriet , here comes a very sudden trial of our stability in good thoughts .  `` ELLIOT OF KELLYNCH HALL .  The Lion 's going to eat us this time ! ''  Anne smiled , and let it pass .  `` I knew pretty well what she was before that day ; '' said he , smiling .  Mrs. John Dashwood did not at all approve of what her husband intended to do for his sisters .  We had better leave the Crofts to find their own level .  Here was a great deal to soften the business .  `` You will wonder , '' said she , `` what has been fixing my eye so long ; but I was looking after some window-curtains , which Lady Alicia and Mrs Frankland were telling me of last night .  Our respected father , as you well know , bequeathed all the Stanhill effects that remained at Norland ( and very valuable they were ) to your mother .  Mrs Smith gave a most good-humoured acquiescence .  They vindicated him against the base aspersion .  MY DEAR MADAM ,  They knew he was to dine in Lansdown Crescent .  We shall miss her ; but SHE will be happy . ''  He made no reply ; his complexion changed and all his embarrassment returned ; but as if , on catching the eye of the young lady with whom he had been previously talking , he felt the necessity of instant exertion , he recovered himself again , and after saying , `` Yes , I had the pleasure of receiving the information of your arrival in town , which you were so good as to send me , '' turned hastily away with a slight bow and joined his friend .  And when they learn drawing and weaving in the schools , their first design is often a picture of a cricket and a gull .  continued Mrs Musgrove ; `` he was grown so steady , and such an excellent correspondent , while he was under your care !  `` Thank you , thank you -- but on no account. -- I would rather walk. -- And for _me_ to be afraid of walking alone ! -- I , who may so soon have to guard others ! ''  repeated Miss Steele ; `` Mr. Ferrars is the happy man , is he ?  `` My dear , you said that Miss Campbell would not allow him to be plain , and that you yourself -- ''  my dear mother , you must be wrong in permitting an engagement between a daughter so young , a man so little known , to be carried on in so doubtful , so mysterious a manner !  It was a reference to the future , which Anne , after a little observation , felt she must submit to .  You know I candidly told you I should form my own opinion ; and I am happy to say that I am extremely pleased with him. -- You may believe me .  But here comes a friend , Captain Brigden ; I shall only say , `How d 'ye do ? '  She paused -- and added in a low voice , `` If I could but know HIS heart , everything would become easy . ''  It was a concert for the benefit of a person patronised by Lady Dalrymple .  You and Miss Smith , and Miss Fairfax , will be three , and the two Miss Coxes five ; and for five couple there will be plenty of room . ''  What blindness , what madness , had led her on !  Elinor , '' said John , `` your reasoning is very good , but it is founded on ignorance of human nature .  How low it makes me ! ''  Some vague report had reached her before of my attachment to some young lady in Devonshire , and what had passed within her observation the preceding evening had marked who the young lady was , and made her more jealous than ever .  Emma hoped it must rapidly work Harriet 's cure ; but the sensations which could prompt such behaviour sunk them both very much. -- It was not to be doubted that poor Harriet 's attachment had been an offering to conjugal unreserve , and her own share in the story , under a colouring the least favourable to her and the most soothing to him , had in all likelihood been given also .  His father was rendered easy by such an assurance , and Mr. John Dashwood had then leisure to consider how much there might prudently be in his power to do for them .  [ At this point in the first and second editions , Volume 1 ends . ]  `` Not before he was married , I suppose ? ''  Elinor , '' she cried , `` you have made me hate myself for ever. -- How barbarous have I been to you ! -- you , who have been my only comfort , who have borne with me in all my misery , who have seemed to be only suffering for me ! -- Is this my gratitude ? -- Is this the only return I can make you ? -- Because your merit cries out upon myself , I have been trying to do it away . ''  Till the little ones , weary , No more can be merry : The sun does descend , And our sports have an end .  She thanked him again and again ; and , with a sweetness of address which always attended her , invited him to be seated .  You do not know how many candidates there always are for the _first_ situations .  cried Emma .  Sir John was delighted ; for to a man , whose prevailing anxiety was the dread of being alone , the acquisition of two , to the number of inhabitants in London , was something .  He seems to me to be grown particularly gentle of late .  He did , on the condition of some promises on her side : such as that , if she came home cold , she would be sure to warm herself thoroughly ; if hungry , that she would take something to eat ; that her own maid should sit up for her ; and that Serle and the butler should see that every thing were safe in the house , as usual .  My account states , that your sister 's friend , the lady now staying with you , whom I have heard you mention , came to Bath with Miss Elliot and Sir Walter as long ago as September ( in short when they first came themselves ) , and has been staying there ever since ; that she is a clever , insinuating , handsome woman , poor and plausible , and altogether such in situation and manner , as to give a general idea , among Sir Walter 's acquaintance , of her meaning to be Lady Elliot , and as general a surprise that Miss Elliot should be apparently , blind to the danger . ''  Their sisters and Mrs. Jennings were invited likewise , and John Dashwood was careful to secure Colonel Brandon , who , always glad to be where the Miss Dashwoods were , received his eager civilities with some surprise , but much more pleasure .  So , Lady Russell would not get out .  They must keep as much together as they could ; '' and James was talked to , and given a charge to go very slow and wait for the other carriage .  I pass away , yet I complain , and no one hears my voice .  Every moment rather brought fresh agitation .  Yet she could not bear this silence .  Oh !  `` I certainly will come .  I hope you will be pleased with my son ; but you must not expect a prodigy .  `` Here have I , '' said she , `` actually talked poor Harriet into being very much attached to this man .  It is not so very likely he should be distressed in his circumstances NOW , for he is a very prudent man , and to be sure must have cleared the estate by this time .  They all united ; and , on reaching Hartfield gates , Emma , who knew it was exactly the sort of visiting that would be welcome to her father , pressed them all to go in and drink tea with him .  The Admiral does not seem very ill , and I sincerely hope Bath will do him all the good he wants .  One day , this proud king was sitting in his place at church , at vesper service ; his courtiers were about him , in their bright garments , and he himself was dressed in his royal robes .  But it takes more than three trout to fill Buster Bear 's stomach , so he kept on to the next little pool .  And it is not merely the house -- the grounds , I assure you , as far as I could observe , are strikingly like .  She stopped , regretting with a deep blush that she had implied so much ; but less would hardly have been sufficient .  `` Never , never ! ''  `` Any acquaintance of Anne 's will always be welcome to me , '' was Lady Russell 's kind answer .  `` Mr. Palmer will be so happy to see you , '' said she ; `` What do you think he said when he heard of your coming with Mamma ?  I have something of consequence to inform you of , which I was on the point of communicating by paper .  `` Why , to be sure , '' said her husband , very gravely , `` that would make great difference .  A house was never taken good care of , Mr Shepherd observed , without a lady : he did not know , whether furniture might not be in danger of suffering as much where there was no lady , as where there were many children .  In the very hardest times that was often all the food the poor children had .  such delicacy ! -- and yet without being actually fair. -- One can not call her fair .  Elinor advised her to lie down again , and for a moment she did so ; but no attitude could give her ease ; and in restless pain of mind and body she moved from one posture to another , till growing more and more hysterical , her sister could with difficulty keep her on the bed at all , and for some time was fearful of being constrained to call for assistance .  NOTE : Though written and engraved by Blake , `` A DIVINE IMAGE '' was never included in the SONGS OF INNOCENCE AND OF EXPERIENCE .  And so away he wint Wid the bag upon his back , An ' up the hill and through the woods Saftly he made his track .  Epaminondas wrapped it up in leaves and put it in his hat , and put his hat on his head , and came along home .  I could almost assert that you had _named_ Mr. Frank Churchill .  Emma then looked up , and immediately saw how it was ; and after a moment 's debate , as to whether it should pass unnoticed or not , replied ,  No , except when she thought of her mother , and remembered where she had been used to sit and preside , she had no sigh of that description to heave .  He lived about a mile from Highbury , was a frequent visitor , and always welcome , and at this time more welcome than usual , as coming directly from their mutual connexions in London .  you may as well take back that tiresome book she would lend me , and pretend I have read it through .  It was not so very bad .  Something occurred while they were at Hartfield , to make Emma want their advice ; and , which was still more lucky , she wanted exactly the advice they gave .  I am sorry for it .  Again the Dagda touched the strings , and this time the magic Music of Mirth leaped from the harp .  `` Yes , ma'am , she said how she was very well ; and to my mind she was always a very handsome young lady -- and she seemed vastly contented . ''  It did seem , last autumn , as if there were an attachment between him and Louisa Musgrove ; but I hope it may be understood to have worn out on each side equally , and without violence .  Elinor was prevented from making any reply to this civil triumph , by the door 's being thrown open , the servant 's announcing Mr. Ferrars , and Edward 's immediately walking in .  All that Mrs. Ferrars could say to make him put an end to the engagement , assisted too as you may well suppose by my arguments , and Fanny 's entreaties , was of no avail .  He was indeed a king worthy of them !  We do not live a great way from him in the country , you know .  poor Jane is ill ! '  With a little reserve of manner , Emma continued :  He told me it was to be a great secret ; and , therefore , I should not think of mentioning it to any body but you , but he said you knew it . ''  However , I do not mean to say they have not a right to it .  But it was then too late , and with a countenance meaning to be open , she sat down again and talked of the weather .  `` THAT was exactly like Robert , '' -- was his immediate observation. -- '' And THAT , '' he presently added , `` might perhaps be in HIS head when the acquaintance between them first began .  Lucy spoke first .  I told you that I did not wonder at your attachment ; that considering the service he had rendered you , it was extremely natural : -- and you agreed to it , expressing yourself very warmly as to your sense of that service , and mentioning even what your sensations had been in seeing him come forward to your rescue. -- The impression of it is strong on my memory . ''  I can pick berries some other day . ''  And her mother , nearly as excited as Margery , came to look at the little crack .  I am a very poor Italian scholar . ''  My dear Miss Woodhouse -- I come quite over-powered .  I am charged with a most agreeable office ( breathing rather faster than usual as she spoke . )  She walked eagerly on as she spoke ; and Elinor , to screen Marianne from particularity , as she felt almost certain of its not being Willoughby , quickened her pace and kept up with her .  `` True , sir ; and Emma , because she had Miss Fairfax . ''  This is all in confirmation , rather , of what we used to hear and believe .  It would grieve me indeed to be obliged to think ill of you ; but if I am to do it , if I am to learn that you are not what we have hitherto believed you , that your regard for us all was insincere , that your behaviour to me was intended only to deceive , let it be told as soon as possible .  Willoughby took his usual place between the two elder Miss Dashwoods .  `` Such a fortnight as it has been ! ''  And now , Miss Woodhouse , I do not think I shall mind seeing them again .  What is before me , I see .  But in this , our last interview of friendship , I approached her with a sense of guilt that almost took from me the power of dissembling .  He could not meet her in conversation , rational or playful .  `` We want your opinion .  But Marianne could no more satisfy him as to the colour of Mr. Willoughby 's pointer , than he could describe to her the shades of his mind .  I shall press you no more . ''  Short was the time , however , in which that fear could affect her , for within half an hour after Willoughby 's leaving the house , she was again called down stairs by the sound of another carriage. -- Eager to save her mother from every unnecessary moment 's horrible suspense , she ran immediately into the hall , and reached the outward door just in time to receive and support her as she entered it .  The house was cleared yesterday , except of the little Harvilles ; but you will be surprised to hear they have never gone home .  Of Elinor 's distress , she was too busily employed in measuring lengths of worsted for her rug , to see any thing at all ; and calmly continuing her talk , as soon as Marianne disappeared , she said ,  It is tenderness of heart which makes my dear father so generally beloved -- which gives Isabella all her popularity. -- I have it not -- but I know how to prize and respect it. -- Harriet is my superior in all the charm and all the felicity it gives .  To take three thousand pounds from the fortune of their dear little boy would be impoverishing him to the most dreadful degree .  This is precisely what I wanted .  `` Do let us have the pleasure of taking you home .  They had left Louisa beginning to sit up ; but her head , though clear , was exceedingly weak , and her nerves susceptible to the highest extreme of tenderness ; and though she might be pronounced to be altogether doing very well , it was still impossible to say when she might be able to bear the removal home ; and her father and mother , who must return in time to receive their younger children for the Christmas holidays , had hardly a hope of being allowed to bring her with them .  `` I lay it down as a general rule , Harriet , that if a woman _doubts_ as to whether she should accept a man or not , she certainly ought to refuse him .  But `` they should meet again .  oh !  If Mr. Knightley did not begin seriously , he was obliged to proceed so , for his proposal was caught at with delight ; and the `` Oh !  Well !  Every body must have seen the snow coming on .  Miss Hawkins , -- I dare say , an excellent young woman .  For a few moments her imagination and her heart were bewitched .  He called her `Augusta . '  `` Who is pulling me ? ''  And as to my dear little boys , I must say , that if Aunt Emma has not time for them , I do not think they would fare much better with Uncle Knightley , who is absent from home about five hours where she is absent one -- and who , when he is at home , is either reading to himself or settling his accounts . ''  Mr. Elton was all obligation and cheerfulness ; he was so very cheerful in his civilities indeed , that she began to think he must have received a different account of Harriet from what had reached her .  In a short time Elinor saw Willoughby quit the room by the door towards the staircase , and telling Marianne that he was gone , urged the impossibility of speaking to him again that evening , as a fresh argument for her to be calm .  Sometimes , indeed , I have thought you were half suspecting me of pleading poor Martin 's cause , which was never the case ; but , from all my observations , I am convinced of her being an artless , amiable girl , with very good notions , very seriously good principles , and placing her happiness in the affections and utility of domestic life. -- Much of this , I have no doubt , she may thank you for . ''  `` Yes , and Miss Atkinson , who dined with him once at the Wallises , says he is the most agreeable man she ever was in company with . ''  He saw a short word prepared for Emma , and given to her with a look sly and demure .  O beauty of the vales of Har , we live not for ourselves , Thou seest me the meanest thing , and so I am indeed : My bosom of itself is cold , and of itself is dark ,  Elinor grew impatient for some tidings of Edward .  I knew he would ! ''  So when Elsa grew up , she did not know how to do anything ; she could not make bread , she could not sweep a room , she could not sew a seam ; she could only laugh and sing .  `` Well , you _are_ a pretty friend ! ''  Sir Walter would quit Kellynch Hall ; and after a very few days more of doubt and indecision , the great question of whither he should go was settled , and the first outline of this important change made out .  It was bad enough to be frightened almost to death as he had been up in the Old Pasture when the pail had caught over his head just as Farmer Brown 's boy had yelled at him .  No farmer 's garden could have looked better than the great garden of the desert valley .  Can I do any thing for _you_ ? ''  you are too scrupulous , indeed you are , '' cried Emma warmly , and taking her hand .  Frank Churchill 's little inclination to exclude himself increased so much , that his last words to Emma were ,  The preparations must take their time , nothing could be properly ready till the third week were entered on , and for a few days they must be planning , proceeding and hoping in uncertainty -- at the risk -- in her opinion , the great risk , of its being all in vain .  `` Indeed , Harriet , it would have been a severe pang to lose you ; but it must have been .  His attentive behaviour to herself and his sisters convinced her that their welfare was dear to him , and , for a long time , she firmly relied on the liberality of his intentions .  Upon the whole , she was very persuadable ; and it being briefly settled among themselves how it might be done without neglecting his comfort -- how certainly Mrs. Goddard , if not Mrs. Bates , might be depended on for bearing him company -- Mr. Woodhouse was to be talked into an acquiescence of his daughter 's going out to dinner on a day now near at hand , and spending the whole evening away from him .  The horror of being blocked up at Randalls , while her children were at Hartfield , was full in her imagination ; and fancying the road to be now just passable for adventurous people , but in a state that admitted no delay , she was eager to have it settled , that her father and Emma should remain at Randalls , while she and her husband set forward instantly through all the possible accumulations of drifted snow that might impede them .  It was so sweet and so loud that the whispers died quite away .  Depend upon me for taking care that no tenant has more than his just rights .  That is how he happened to hear a little cry , a very faint little cry .  You can borrow Mrs. Cole 's .  `` I was not quite impartial in my judgment , Emma : -- but yet , I think -- had _you_ not been in the case -- I should still have distrusted him . ''  But Piccola never doubted at all That something beautiful must befall Every child upon Christmas-day , And so she slept till the dawn was gray .  `` Oh !  It had been in situation .  But this , from the momentary perverseness of impatient suffering , she at first refused to do .  CHAPTER 36  Robert of Sicily went to the services with the rest , and sat in the humblest place with the servants .  `` Marianne , '' cried her sister , `` how can you say so ?  `` I suppose you will not like to call at the Great House before they have been to see you ? ''  Not know Mr Elliot , indeed !  I was exceedingly pleased to hear that Mrs. Ferrars considered it in that light -- a very gratifying circumstance you know to us all .  It is a very fair match , as times go ; and I have liked Charles Hayter all my life , and I shall not leave off now . ''  It made him feel very queer .  `` Because , your Majesty , '' said the Crayfish , `` I saw the Otter coming down to the river to kill my children . ''  `` Myself creating what I saw , ''  `` Oh !  I did not see it to advantage , for nothing could be more forlorn than the furniture , -- but if it were newly fitted up -- a couple of hundred pounds , Willoughby says , would make it one of the pleasantest summer-rooms in England . ''  Elinor drew near , but without saying a word ; and seating herself on the bed , took her hand , kissed her affectionately several times , and then gave way to a burst of tears , which at first was scarcely less violent than Marianne 's .  grunted the Whale , `` I 'll pull her out , if she is stuck to the horns . ''  I understand she is a woman of very good fortune .  I can not let you continue in your error ; and yet , perhaps , since my manners gave such an impression , I have as much reason to be ashamed of confessing that I never have been at all attached to the person we are speaking of , as it might be natural for a woman to feel in confessing exactly the reverse. -- But I never have . ''  With this , she built a home for orphan babies ; she called it her baby house .  `` I have been a little premature , I perceive ; I beg your pardon .  For some , her father poked little holes with his finger ; for some , he made very shallow trenches ; and some very small seeds were scattered lightly over the top of the ground .  `` And you have forgotten one matter of joy to me , '' said Emma , `` and a very considerable one -- that I made the match myself .  `` Will you be so kind , '' said she , `` when I am missed , as to say that I am gone home ? -- I am going this moment. -- My aunt is not aware how late it is , nor how long we have been absent -- but I am sure we shall be wanted , and I am determined to go directly. -- I have said nothing about it to any body .  Emma even jumped with surprize ; -- and , horror-struck , exclaimed ,  `` Oh !  A short absence from home had left his fair one unguarded by his attentions at this critical period , and when he came back he had the pain of finding very altered manners , and of seeing Captain Wentworth .  And again , on Emma 's merely turning her head to look at Mrs. Bates 's knitting , she added , in a half whisper ,  We consulted together , however , as to what should be done , and at last she determined to send for Edward .  `` Another thing must be taken into consideration too -- Mrs. Elton does not talk _to_ Miss Fairfax as she speaks _of_ her .  Chapter 11  And extremely acceptable it is , for we must live at a great expense while we are here . ''  `` Certainly , certainly .  They want her ( Mr. and Mrs. Dixon ) excessively to come over with Colonel and Mrs. Campbell ; quite depend upon it ; nothing can be more kind or pressing than their _joint_ invitation , Jane says , as you will hear presently ; Mr. Dixon does not seem in the least backward in any attention .  The party separated .  But I could not reason so to a man in love , and was willing to trust to there being no harm in her , to her having that sort of disposition , which , in good hands , like his , might be easily led aright and turn out very well .  It was thus imparted to her , as soon as any opportunity of private conference between them occurred .  But you know -- if you do n't , you will when you are grown up -- that no matter how clever you are , sooner or later you surely meet some one who is more clever .  The little Cloud could see the poor people of the earth working and suffering in the hot fields , while she herself floated on the morning breeze , hither and thither , without a care .  When we met him , he turned back and walked with us ; and so we began talking of my brother and sister , and one thing and another , and I said to him , 'So , Colonel , there is a new family come to Barton cottage , I hear , and mama sends me word they are very pretty , and that one of them is going to be married to Mr. Willoughby of Combe Magna .  Thou , mother of my mortal part , With cruelty didst mould my heart , And with false self-deceiving tears Didst bind my nostrils , eyes , and ears , Didst close my tongue in senseless clay , And me to mortal life betray .  This was the only visit from Frank Churchill in the course of ten days .  `` You may certainly ask to be forgiven , '' said Elinor , `` because you have offended ; -- and I should think you might NOW venture so far as to profess some concern for having ever formed the engagement which drew on you your mother 's anger . ''  While Captains Wentworth and Harville led the talk on one side of the room , and by recurring to former days , supplied anecdotes in abundance to occupy and entertain the others , it fell to Anne 's lot to be placed rather apart with Captain Benwick ; and a very good impulse of her nature obliged her to begin an acquaintance with him .  Buster is so fond of berries that from the very second that his greedy little eyes saw that pailful , he forgot everything but the feast that was waiting for him right under his very nose .  Elinor encouraged her as much as possible to talk of what she felt ; and before breakfast was ready , they had gone through the subject again and again ; and with the same steady conviction and affectionate counsel on Elinor 's side , the same impetuous feelings and varying opinions on Marianne 's , as before .  The closing of the little gate , at the entrance of the green court in front of the house , drew her eyes to the window , and she saw a large party walking up to the door .  `` Four months ! -- Have you known of this four months ? ''  `` On the contrary , nothing can be a stronger proof of it , Elinor ; for if there had been any real impropriety in what I did , I should have been sensible of it at the time , for we always know when we are acting wrong , and with such a conviction I could have had no pleasure . ''  `` Mary M -- - .  Elton ? ''  The little Nightingale said she could sing better in her own greenwood , but she was so sweet and kind that she came with them .  `` Here 's your trout , Mr .  She was reminded , more than once , of having always said she would never marry , and assured that it would be a great deal better for her to remain single ; and told of poor Isabella , and poor Miss Taylor. -- But it would not do .  cried Harriet , warmly .  The impertinence of the Eltons , which for a few minutes had threatened to ruin the rest of her evening , had been the occasion of some of its highest satisfactions ; and she looked forward to another happy result -- the cure of Harriet 's infatuation. -- From Harriet 's manner of speaking of the circumstance before they quitted the ballroom , she had strong hopes .  Seven nights they sleep Among shadows deep , And dream they see their child Starved in desert wild .  She says she never shall think well of anybody again ; and one can not wonder at it , after being so deceived ! -- meeting with such ingratitude , where so much kindness had been shewn , so much confidence had been placed !  `` No , '' cried Mr. Knightley , `` that need not be the consequence .  You had rather take evil upon credit than good .  `` I can not rate her beauty as you do , '' said he ; `` but she is a pretty little creature , and I am inclined to think very well of her disposition .  Lady Russell listened , and looked , and made only this cautious reply : -- '' Elizabeth !  But ah !  And now I can tolerably comprehend his behaviour .  The expense shall not be thought of ; and though he is so liberal , and so fond of Jane that I dare say he would not mean to charge any thing for attendance , we could not suffer it to be so , you know .  It was striking eleven !  Death was listening to the song , too ; and when it was done and the Emperor begged for more , Death , too , said , `` Please sing again , little Nightingale ! ''  The day approached , the day arrived ; and after a morning of some anxious watching , Frank Churchill , in all the certainty of his own self , reached Randalls before dinner , and every thing was safe .  I do not say when , but perhaps you may guess where ; -- in the building in which N. takes M. for better , for worse . ''  He came back gay and self-satisfied , eager and busy , caring nothing for Miss Woodhouse , and defying Miss Smith .  It depends entirely upon his aunt 's spirits and pleasure ; in short , upon her temper .  He was in high spirits ; as ready to talk and laugh as ever , and seemed delighted to speak of his former visit , and recur to old stories : and he was not without agitation .  `` She is dead !  was uttered by Captain Wentworth , Anne was sure could never be forgotten by her ; nor the sight of him afterwards , as he sat near a table , leaning over it with folded arms and face concealed , as if overpowered by the various feelings of his soul , and trying by prayer and reflection to calm them .  Emma guessed him to be the drudge of some attorney , and too stupid to rise .  `` You got no more than you deserve for stealing Farmer Brown 's boy's berries , '' said Sammy Jay , who had come back and was looking on from the top of a tree .  I 'm sorry that I doubted it .  `` Did you see them off , before you came away ? ''  This proposal of his , this plan of marrying and continuing at Hartfield -- the more she contemplated it , the more pleasing it became .  Every bit of that ground had to be broken up still more with a spade , and then the clods which were full of grass-roots had to be taken on a fork and shaken , till the earth fell out ; when the grass was thrown to one side .  He was pretty tired when he got home .  art thou but a Worm ?  Thank Heaven !  Now there came a time when he had eaten all the crabs to be found on his own side of the river .  Her wretchedness I could have borne , but her passion -- her malice -- At all events it must be appeased .  He expressed great pleasure in meeting Elinor , told her that he had been just going to call in Berkeley Street , and , assuring her that Fanny would be very glad to see her , invited her to come in .  But you , -- you above all , above my mother , had been wronged by me .  I thought it very well done of him indeed .  Mr. John Knightley proved more talkative than his brother .  The time now approached for Lady Russell 's return : the day was even fixed ; and Anne , being engaged to join her as soon as she was resettled , was looking forward to an early removal to Kellynch , and beginning to think how her own comfort was likely to be affected by it .  The visit was of course short ; and there was so much embarrassment and occupation of mind to shorten it , that Emma would not allow herself entirely to form an opinion of the lady , and on no account to give one , beyond the nothing-meaning terms of being `` elegantly dressed , and very pleasing . ''  She felt that , in quitting Donwell , he must be sacrificing a great deal of independence of hours and habits ; that in living constantly with her father , and in no house of his own , there would be much , very much , to be borne with .  `` Do not treat the little Stars so , '' said the good Moon .  Five hundred a year !  And then , to prevent farther outrage and indignation , changed the subject directly .  Miss Nash has put down all the texts he has ever preached from since he came to Highbury .  `` And she , '' said Mrs Smith , `` besides nursing me most admirably , has really proved an invaluable acquaintance .  In the intervals of the concert it was conversation . ''  Dr. Hughes I declare -- and Mrs. Hughes .  And having gone through what immediately followed of the basis of their disagreement , and his persisting to act in direct opposition to Jane Fairfax 's sense of right , he made a fuller pause to say , `` This is very bad. -- He had induced her to place herself , for his sake , in a situation of extreme difficulty and uneasiness , and it should have been his first object to prevent her from suffering unnecessarily. -- She must have had much more to contend with , in carrying on the correspondence , than he could .  `` It is certainly very well regulated . ''  Tell her of my misery and my penitence -- tell her that my heart was never inconstant to her , and if you will , that at this moment she is dearer to me than ever . ''  `` I can not afford to lose ONE hour . ''  `` And do you not think it more likely that she should leave it to her daughters , than to us ? ''  Frank Churchill comes as regularly into my mind ! ''  Their opportunity of acquaintance in the house of Mr. Pratt was a foundation for the rest , at once indisputable and alarming ; and Edward 's visit near Plymouth , his melancholy state of mind , his dissatisfaction at his own prospects , his uncertain behaviour towards herself , the intimate knowledge of the Miss Steeles as to Norland and their family connections , which had often surprised her , the picture , the letter , the ring , formed altogether such a body of evidence , as overcame every fear of condemning him unfairly , and established as a fact , which no partiality could set aside , his ill-treatment of herself. -- Her resentment of such behaviour , her indignation at having been its dupe , for a short time made her feel only for herself ; but other ideas , other considerations , soon arose .  There is no doubt of your doing exceedingly well -- quite as well , or better , perhaps , all things considered .  Art thou a Worm ?  They could think of no one else .  And in short , she said more than her husband could long withstand , and as none of the others could oppose when he gave way , there was no help for it ; the change of Mary for Anne was inevitable .  Then she had , indeed , been a pitiable object ; for she had caught cold on the journey , and had hardly taken possession of her lodgings before she was again confined to her bed and suffering under severe and constant pain ; and all this among strangers , with the absolute necessity of having a regular nurse , and finances at that moment particularly unfit to meet any extraordinary expense .  Jane was quite longing to go to Ireland , from his account of things . ''  I only wonder that I am alive after what I have suffered for Edward 's sake these last four years .  I believe I have been wrong in saying so much , but I hardly know what to do , and on your prudence I have the strongest dependence .  `` Dear , dear ! ''  -- cried Marianne again. -- '' So calm ! -- so cheerful ! -- how have you been supported ? ''  Oh !  The elegant little clock on the mantel- piece had struck `` eleven with its silver sounds , '' and the watchman was beginning to be heard at a distance telling the same tale , before Mr Elliot or any of them seemed to feel that he had been there long .  `` We shall never agree about him , '' cried Emma ; `` but that is nothing extraordinary .  `` Ungrateful ! -- What do you mean ? ''  `` Well , '' continued Mrs Smith , triumphantly , `` grant my friend the credit due to the establishment of the first point asserted .  Musgrove , take care of the others . ''  Miss Lucy Steele is , I dare say , a very deserving young woman , but in the present case you know , the connection must be impossible .  But she could hear of no situation that at once answered her notions of comfort and ease , and suited the prudence of her eldest daughter , whose steadier judgment rejected several houses as too large for their income , which her mother would have approved .  If the girl likes another man better , it is very fit she should have him . ''  `` Yes , it sounds funny , '' said father ; `` but , you see , the birch tree is dicotyledonous , and so are many weeds , and the dicotyledons look so much alike at first . ''  But by an appeal to her affection for her mother , by representing the inconveniences which that indulgent mother must draw on herself , if ( as would probably be the case ) she consented to this increase of establishment , Marianne was shortly subdued ; and she promised not to tempt her mother to such imprudent kindness by mentioning the offer , and to tell Willoughby when she saw him next , that it must be declined .  That has been a very great improvement .  `` That appears quite wonderful .  ( Laughing affectedly . )  With Mr. Weston 's ball in view at least , there had been a great deal of insensibility to other things ; but it was now too evident that she had not attained such a state of composure as could stand against the actual approach -- new carriage , bell-ringing , and all .  You are the kindest Alligator in the world , to show me where you are , so nicely !  It must be her ardent wish that Harriet might be disappointed ; and she hoped , that when able to see them together again , she might at least be able to ascertain what the chances for it were. -- She should see them henceforward with the closest observance ; and wretchedly as she had hitherto misunderstood even those she was watching , she did not know how to admit that she could be blinded here. -- He was expected back every day .  Then he told how Farmer Brown 's boy had found a footprint of Buster Bear in the soft mud , and how he had stopped fishing right away and started for home , looking behind him with fear in his eyes all the way .  Marianne gave one glance round the apartment as she entered : it was enough -- HE was not there -- and she sat down , equally ill-disposed to receive or communicate pleasure .  He would save himself from witnessing again such permitted , encouraged attentions. -- He had gone to learn to be indifferent. -- But he had gone to a wrong place .  And your brother and sister were not very kind !  `` Send for the Great Lizard , '' said King Solomon .  I require so much !  Day and night go again and again ; little by little the snow melts all away ; the ground grows soft ; the sky is blue ; the little birds fly over , crying , `` It is spring !  Little Joe could n't find a word to say .  He replied with his accustomary mildness to all her inquiries , but without satisfying her in any .  said Elinor .  `` Oh !  The tailor said , `` I will certainly do that , but you must give me an hour before we commence . ''  She had had difficulties of every sort to contend with , and in addition to these distresses had been afflicted with a severe rheumatic fever , which , finally settling in her legs , had made her for the present a cripple .  Willoughby was out of the question .  He had been going to call on them .  `` I feel no sentiment of approbation inferior to love . ''  `` You speak very properly .  So up he flew directly , and a terrible scene took place , for Lucy was come to them by that time , little dreaming what was going on .  The remaining five were now to draw their cards .  Mrs. Weston -- it is too calm a censure .  here come the Richardsons .  On every formal visit a child ought to be of the party , by way of provision for discourse .  `` When I open the bag you hold the cover off the kettle and I 'll shake the bag so that the Hen will fall in , and then you pop the cover on , before she can jump out . ''  Blacky could n't find a word to say .  The animal was easier to sit on than the donkey , and the saddle seemed remarkably high behind ; it was good to lean against .  Perhaps , however , he is kept silent by his fear of offending , and I shall , therefore , give him a hint , by a line to Oxford , that his sister and I both think a letter of proper submission from him , addressed perhaps to Fanny , and by her shewn to her mother , might not be taken amiss ; for we all know the tenderness of Mrs. Ferrars 's heart , and that she wishes for nothing so much as to be on good terms with her children . ''  `` Miss Smith ! -- oh ! -- I had not observed. -- You are extremely obliging -- and if I were not an old married man. -- But my dancing days are over , Mrs. Weston .  How do you do ? -- Very well , I thank you .  `` Opportunity ! ''  And when it came nearer , they saw that it was a most beautiful lady , robed in floating garments as fine as cobwebs and wearing on her head a crown so bright that no one could tell whether it was of diamonds or of dew .  It is bad for him , I know , to be shut up as he is ; but what can we do ?  Very much grieved and concerned -- I had flattered myself that she must be better after such a cordial as I knew had been given her in the morning . ''  `` Well done , Mrs .  Within abundance of silver paper was a pretty little Tunbridge-ware box , which Harriet opened : it was well lined with the softest cotton ; but , excepting the cotton , Emma saw only a small piece of court-plaister .  Mrs. Dashwood was denied ; but before the carriage could turn from the house , her husband accidentally came out .  Emma 's colour was heightened by this unjust praise ; and with a smile , and shake of the head , which spoke much , she looked at Mr .  But now for Louisa .  He understood that she was in need of a dwelling ; and though the house he now offered her was merely a cottage , he assured her that everything should be done to it which she might think necessary , if the situation pleased her .  cried Emma feelingly .  THEN she fell into hysterics again , and he was so frightened that he would send for Mr. Donavan , and Mr. Donavan found the house in all this uproar .  The invitation was refused , and by a verbal message .  But she had seen enough of him to join in all the admiration of the others , and with an energy which always adorned her praise .  `` Ah ! ''  Marianne was astonished to find how much the imagination of her mother and herself had outstripped the truth .  But it seemed to satisfy Lucy , for she directly replied ,  Their last meeting had been most important in opening his feelings ; she had derived from it a delightful conviction ; but she feared from his looks , that the same unfortunate persuasion , which had hastened him away from the Concert Room , still governed .  Knightley's. -- Alas !  But all at once , in the midst of their eating , there came a scratching at the door and a sharp , loud _miaouw_ !  Edward heard with pleasure of Colonel Brandon 's being expected at the Cottage , as he really wished not only to be better acquainted with him , but to have an opportunity of convincing him that he no longer resented his giving him the living of Delaford -- '' Which , at present , '' said he , `` after thanks so ungraciously delivered as mine were on the occasion , he must think I have never forgiven him for offering . ''  I have not time to speak to Mrs. Jennings about it myself , but pray tell her I am quite happy to hear she is not in anger against us , and Lady Middleton the same ; and if anything should happen to take you and your sister away , and Mrs. Jennings should want company , I am sure we should be very glad to come and stay with her for as long a time as she likes .  `` No , '' answered Elinor , with a smile , which concealed very agitated feelings , `` on such a subject I certainly will not .  `` You have no confidence in me , Marianne . ''  But you , who have known Miss Fairfax from a child , must be a better judge of her character , and of how she is likely to conduct herself in critical situations , than I can be . ''  said he to Emma , and trying , as he spoke , to catch Miss Fairfax 's eye .  She felt herself ill-used and unfortunate , as did her father ; and they were neither of them able to devise any means of lessening their expenses without compromising their dignity , or relinquishing their comforts in a way not to be borne .  `` No , I have not ; I know nothing ; pray tell me . ''  Her father and sister were glad to see her , for the sake of shewing her the house and furniture , and met her with kindness .  At that moment she first perceived him , and her whole countenance glowing with sudden delight , she would have moved towards him instantly , had not her sister caught hold of her .  XVII BUSTER BEAR GOES BERRYING Buster Bear is a great hand to talk to himself when he thinks no one is around to overhear .  I had no reason to believe her of less authority now .  But the rest , which one night entirely sleepless , and many hours of the most wearing anxiety seemed to make requisite , was kept off by irritation of spirits .  Elinor was much more hurt by Marianne 's warmth than she had been by what produced it ; but Colonel Brandon 's eyes , as they were fixed on Marianne , declared that he noticed only what was amiable in it , the affectionate heart which could not bear to see a sister slighted in the smallest point .  But when the Whale found himself sliding toward the land he was so provoked with the cow that he dived head first , down to the bottom of the sea .  dear , Miss Woodhouse -- well , at last , I fancy , he looked round and saw me ; for instead of going on with her buyings , they began whispering to one another .  `` And , in return for your acknowledging so much , I will do you the justice to say , that you would have chosen for him better than he has chosen for himself. -- Harriet Smith has some first-rate qualities , which Mrs. Elton is totally without .  I never saw anybody in my life spell harder for an invitation .  Do not beat me . ''  `` Oh !  You have cured her of her school-girl 's giggle ; she really does you credit . ''  You would not have been so long in coming , if you had had a pleasant idea of Highbury . ''  and A. -- Em-ma. -- Do you understand ? ''  To some of the best-looking of these good people Henrietta was consigned , for , though partially revived , she was quite helpless ; and in this manner , Anne walking by her side , and Charles attending to his wife , they set forward , treading back with feelings unutterable , the ground , which so lately , so very lately , and so light of heart , they had passed along .  `` I think there will be very tolerable room for ten couple . ''  That is a great thing .  He wanted to know how early he might be admitted to-morrow .  After a battle , or when it was a holiday , or when he was very thankful for something , King David used to make songs , and sing them before the people .  Perry. -- I want his directions no more than his drugs . ''  The mention of the Coles was sure to be followed by that of Mr. Elton .  That is just another way of saying shamed .  `` Jane Fairfax has feeling , '' said Mr. Knightley -- '' I do not accuse her of want of feeling .  They ascended and passed him ; and as they passed , Anne 's face caught his eye , and he looked at her with a degree of earnest admiration , which she could not be insensible of .  Just above it , was a big Dewdrop that clung timidly to a nodding grass-blade .  But Emma , in her own mind , determined that he _did_ know what he was talking about , and that he shewed a very amiable inclination to settle early in life , and to marry , from worthy motives .  `` At last we are alone .  What !  When he had gobbled up all the berries that rolled out , he thrust his nose into the pail to get all that were left in it .  `` Depend upon me -- but ask no more questions .  She expected from other people the same opinions and feelings as her own , and she judged of their motives by the immediate effect of their actions on herself .  repeated Anne , looking up surprised .  I am quite of your opinion , Mrs Croft , '' was Mrs Musgrove 's hearty answer .  Why else should he have shewn such unwillingness to accept your invitation here ? ''  To this day they dwell In a lonely dell , Nor fear the wolvish howl Nor the lion 's growl .  Elinor , too , was deeply afflicted ; but still she could struggle , she could exert herself .  Marianne assented most feelingly to the remark ; and her mother was led by it to an enumeration of Colonel Brandon 's injuries and merits , warm as friendship and design could unitedly dictate .  Charles is out shooting .  can it be possible for this man to be beginning to transfer his affections from Harriet to me ? -- Absurd and insufferable ! ''  And do n't you go see your Auntie , neither .  `` Me !  `` How horrid all this is ! ''  But Mr. Elton had only drunk wine enough to elevate his spirits , not at all to confuse his intellects .  And each time that he asked it his eyes looked into Robert 's eyes , to find his heart .  It took the man two hours to plough the little strip of land .  That Lucy had certainly meant to deceive , to go off with a flourish of malice against him in her message by Thomas , was perfectly clear to Elinor ; and Edward himself , now thoroughly enlightened on her character , had no scruple in believing her capable of the utmost meanness of wanton ill-nature .  --  To you -- to my two daughters -- I may venture on the truth .  said the little Nightingale .  said she , when dinner was over and they had drawn round the fire ; `` are you still to be a great orator in spite of yourself ? ''  `` Well , sir , '' said Elinor , who , though pitying him , grew impatient for his departure , `` and this is all ? ''  She knew , that when he now took up the Baronetage , it was to drive the heavy bills of his tradespeople , and the unwelcome hints of Mr Shepherd , his agent , from his thoughts .  said she , when they were ready .  `` Him ! -- never , never .  `` I 'm going to Dublin , to try to make a court for the king . ''  While they are with us , we shall explore a great deal , I dare say .  Many of the dicotyledons look alike . ''  `` Miss Woodhouse -- if you are at leisure -- I have something that I should like to tell you -- a sort of confession to make -- and then , you know , it will be over . ''  He was evidently a young man of considerable taste in reading , though principally in poetry ; and besides the persuasion of having given him at least an evening 's indulgence in the discussion of subjects , which his usual companions had probably no concern in , she had the hope of being of real use to him in some suggestions as to the duty and benefit of struggling against affliction , which had naturally grown out of their conversation .  `` What a charming thing it is that Mrs. Dashwood can spare you both for so long a time together ! ''  When Farmer Brown 's boy disappeared in the barn , Chatterer the Red Squirrel snickered right out loud .  `` Yes , do . ''  You are _exceedingly_ kind to show me where you are !  They saw , like a white cloud rising from the lake , a flock of sea gulls flying toward them .  Presently he came to another little pool .  There was the fat trout , and there also was Little Joe 's smallest cousin , Shadow the Weasel , who is a great thief and altogether bad .  They began to say unkind things about him .  It will be some trial to us both . ''  I beg your pardon , sir .  A few years however will settle her opinions on the reasonable basis of common sense and observation ; and then they may be more easy to define and to justify than they now are , by any body but herself . ''  `` Many , many circumstances , '' said Elinor , solemnly .  Emma agreed to it , and with a blush of sensibility on Harriet 's account , which she could not give any sincere explanation of .  You will be perfectly safe , you know , among your friends . ''  All that remained to be wished was , that the nephew should form the attachment , as , with all her goodwill in the cause , Emma could feel no certainty of its being already formed .  my dear sir , how are you this morning ?  She is a shrewd , intelligent , sensible woman .  I know you are attached to them . ''  He was not allowed to escape , however .  They met readily and smiling , but with a consciousness which at first allowed little to be said ; and having all sat down again , there was for some time such a blank in the circle , that Emma began to doubt whether the wish now indulged , which she had long felt , of seeing Frank Churchill once more , and of seeing him with Jane , would yield its proportion of pleasure .  She had hoped for an answer here -- for a few words to say that her conduct was at least intelligible ; but he was silent ; and , as far as she could judge , deep in thought .  She could not endure its noise .  Prince Cherry grieved for his father , and often lay awake at night , thinking of him .  But , if at the Church they would give us some ale , And a pleasant fire our souls to regale , We 'd sing and we 'd pray all the livelong day , Nor ever once wish from the Church to stray .  Do not let me lose it .  It rained dreadfully hard for half an hour while we were at breakfast .  There will be but one subject throughout the parishes of Donwell and Highbury ; but one interest -- one object of curiosity ; it will be all Mr. Frank Churchill ; we shall think and speak of nobody else . ''  A heavy scene however awaited me , before I could leave Devonshire ; -- I was engaged to dine with you on that very day ; some apology was therefore necessary for my breaking this engagement .  He was a married man , with only one living child , a girl , about Jane 's age : and Jane became their guest , paying them long visits and growing a favourite with all ; and before she was nine years old , his daughter 's great fondness for her , and his own wish of being a real friend , united to produce an offer from Colonel Campbell of undertaking the whole charge of her education .  Soon , however , she began to reason with herself , and try to be feeling less .  No ! -- ( in an accent meant to be insinuating ) -- I am sure you have seen and understood me . ''  The estate at Winthrop is not less than two hundred and fifty acres , besides the farm near Taunton , which is some of the best land in the country .  a smart , stylish girl they say , but not handsome .  Before the end of September , Emma attended Harriet to church , and saw her hand bestowed on Robert Martin with so complete a satisfaction , as no remembrances , even connected with Mr. Elton as he stood before them , could impair. -- Perhaps , indeed , at that time she scarcely saw Mr. Elton , but as the clergyman whose blessing at the altar might next fall on herself. -- Robert Martin and Harriet Smith , the latest couple engaged of the three , were the first to be married .  And this satisfied Elizabeth : and when the invitation was given to the two present , and promised for the absent , Mary was as completely satisfied .  Then he had laughed some more , all of which goes to show how easy it is to be mistaken , and how foolish it is to laugh at things you really do n't know about .  Robert 's offence was unpardonable , but Lucy 's was infinitely worse .  But it was too late .  Unintentionally she returned to that part of the room ; he saw her , and , instantly rising , said , with studied politeness --  I can satisfy you , perhaps , on points which you would little expect ; and as to his marriage , I knew all about it at the time .  No , no ; Henrietta might do worse than marry Charles Hayter ; and if she has him , and Louisa can get Captain Wentworth , I shall be very well satisfied . ''  It was an alarming change ; and Emma was thinking of it one morning , as what must bring a great deal to agitate and grieve her , when Mr. Knightley came in , and distressing thoughts were put by .  `` I stood here , '' said the Tiger , leaping into the cage , `` with my head over my shoulder , so . ''  `` I am the king , and you are an impostor ! ''  I have nothing more to shew you , or to say -- except that I am now going to throw them both behind the fire , and I wish you to see me do it . ''  He was rich , and being turned on shore , fully intended to settle as soon as he could be properly tempted ; actually looking round , ready to fall in love with all the speed which a clear head and a quick taste could allow .  There would have been either the ostentation of a coxcomb , or the evasions of a mind too weak to defend its own vanities. -- No , I am perfectly sure that he is not trifling or silly . ''  She will never submit to any thing requiring industry and patience , and a subjection of the fancy to the understanding .  no -- what an impudent dog I was ! -- How could I dare -- ''  You 're getting foolish in your old age , '' retorted Little Joe .  He had quitted Oxford within four and twenty hours after Lucy 's letter arrived , and with only one object before him , the nearest road to Barton , had had no leisure to form any scheme of conduct , with which that road did not hold the most intimate connection .  How is it to be supposed that Willoughby , persuaded as he must be of your sister 's love , should leave her , and leave her perhaps for months , without telling her of his affection ; -- that they should part without a mutual exchange of confidence ? ''  Mr. Knightley seemed to be trying not to smile ; and succeeded without difficulty , upon Mrs. Elton 's beginning to talk to him .  But suddenly the music seemed to change ; a wonderful light shone all about .  I a n't the least astonished at it in the world , for I have often thought of late , there was nothing more likely to happen . ''  Good gracious ! -- In a moment I shall see the person that all my happiness depends on -- that is to be my mother ! ''  He has the tenderest spirit of gallantry towards us all ! -- You must let me read it to him . ''  said the little Jackal .  I wish I were anywhere else . ''  -- Mr. Elton was appealed to. -- '' Was not it astonishingly like ? -- She could really almost fancy herself at Maple Grove . ''  She could not think of much else on the 29th of September ; and she had this sympathetic touch in the evening from Mary , who , on having occasion to note down the day of the month , exclaimed , `` Dear me , is not this the day the Crofts were to come to Kellynch ?  Every thing was silent ; this could not be borne many seconds ; she opened the door , advanced a few steps towards the stairs , and after listening half a minute , returned into the room in all the agitation which a conviction of having heard him would naturally produce ; in the ecstasy of her feelings at that instant she could not help exclaiming , `` Oh , Elinor , it is Willoughby , indeed it is ! ''  Her health seemed for the moment completely deranged -- appetite quite gone -- and though there were no absolutely alarming symptoms , nothing touching the pulmonary complaint , which was the standing apprehension of the family , Mr. Perry was uneasy about her .  `` That may be done without horses .  Old John , with white hair , Does laugh away care , Sitting under the oak , Among the old folk .  You forget how time passes . ''  `In the name of heaven , who is that old fellow ? '  It was put an end to by Mrs. Dashwood , who felt obliged to hope that he had left Mrs. Ferrars very well .  A warm climate may be prescribed for her .  Emma could not speak the name of Dixon without a little blush .  The lazy man crept round and round the spot where he had fallen , scratched his hands on the stumps , tore his face in the briers , and bumped his knees on the stones .  `` Then you would be very ill-bred , '' cried Mr. Palmer .  Elinor 's thanks followed this speech with grateful earnestness ; attended too with the assurance of her expecting material advantage to Marianne , from the communication of what had passed .  Do not distress her . ''  THE BRAHMIN , THE TIGER , AND THE JACKAL Do you know what a Brahmin is ?  But this he declined , as he was dirty and wet .  Boaster ! ''  Instantly , the snail drew in his head , curled up in his shell , and left the lazy man sitting in a heap on the ground !  Under leaves so green A happy blossom Sees you , swift as arrow , Seek your cradle narrow , Near my bosom .  You remember him , I am sure . ''  And gentle sleep the sleep of death , and gently hear the voice Of him that walketh in the garden in the evening time .  I wish him very happy ; and I am so sure of his always doing his duty , that though now he may harbour some regret , in the end he must become so .  Our own library is too well known to me , to be resorted to for any thing beyond mere amusement .  He had , in fact , been wholly unsuspicious of his own influence .  She left it all behind her , all but the recollection that such things had been .  Robert of Sicily , half naked , ragged , without a sign of his kingship on him , stood before the throne and stared with fury at this figure of himself .  `` To be sure , '' continued Lucy , after a few minutes silence on both sides , `` his mother must provide for him sometime or other ; but poor Edward is so cast down by it !  Descend O little cloud & hover before the eyes of Thel .  However , I do really think Mr. Martin a very amiable young man , and have a great opinion of him ; and his being so much attached to me -- and his writing such a letter -- but as to leaving you , it is what I would not do upon any consideration . ''  Such conduct made them of course most exceedingly laughed at ; but ridicule could not shame , and seemed hardly to provoke them .  `` If it would be good to her , I am sure it would be evil to himself ; a very shameful and degrading connexion .  It is my party .  He was to leave them early the next day ; and he soon began with --  dear -- I think you play the best of the two .  Anne gave her credit , indeed , for feelings of great consideration towards herself , in all that related to Kellynch , and it pleased her : especially , as she had satisfied herself in the very first half minute , in the instant even of introduction , that there was not the smallest symptom of any knowledge or suspicion on Mrs Croft 's side , to give a bias of any sort .  He was in trouble this time , was Chatterer , sure enough !  Sure enough , there was Buster Bear sitting close beside a little pool and looking into it very intently .  The conclusion of the whole was , that if the woman who had been sensible of Captain Wentworth 's merits could be allowed to prefer another man , there was nothing in the engagement to excite lasting wonder ; and if Captain Wentworth lost no friend by it , certainly nothing to be regretted .  Then the king 's daughter said to the baby 's mother , `` Take this child away and nurse it for me , and I will give thee wages . ''  And he shut and bolted the door !  I , who am owing all my happiness to _you_ , would not it be horrible ingratitude in me to be severe on them ? ''  Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life ; and I will dwell in the house of the Lord for ever.= THE HIDDEN SERVANTS This is a legend about a hermit who lived long ago .  It will be quite delightful ! -- My love , '' applying to her husband , `` do n't you long to have the Miss Dashwoods come to Cleveland ? ''  On the contrary , I think a young man might be very safely recommended to take Mr. Elton as a model .  Never , never can it be !  The Brahmin called up to him imploringly , -- `` Oh , Brother Eagle , Brother Eagle !  `` I believe I have been very rude ; but really Miss Fairfax has done her hair in so odd a way -- so very odd a way -- that I can not keep my eyes from her .  And as for Harriet , I will venture to say that _she_ can not gain by the acquaintance .  CHAPTER IV  Now though Buster did n't know it , some one had been listening , and that some one was none other than Sammy Jay .  `` I am sorry to find you unwell , '' replied Anne .  I shall have no fears for you with him .  The marriage of Lieut .  `` Four years you have been engaged , '' said she with a firm voice .  His remembrance can be overcome by no change of circumstances or opinions .  No second meeting had there yet been between him and Emma .  `` _Who is there ? _ '' she said .  It was not lost on me .  It was late in the morning before they returned home ; and no sooner had they entered the house than Marianne flew eagerly up stairs , and when Elinor followed , she found her turning from the table with a sorrowful countenance , which declared that no Willoughby had been there .  `` That is very good , very faithful , '' the hermit said .  That 's what he did , and nobody else could have saved poor James .  `` What a very great pleasure it will be to you !  You ca n't think how much I longed to see you !  united , what reverse we have !  And yet it was far , very far , from impossible. -- Was it a new circumstance for a man of first-rate abilities to be captivated by very inferior powers ?  Some mothers might have encouraged the intimacy from motives of interest , for Edward Ferrars was the eldest son of a man who had died very rich ; and some might have repressed it from motives of prudence , for , except a trifling sum , the whole of his fortune depended on the will of his mother .  `` Good morning to you , '' -- said he , rising and walking off abruptly .  And when he was a little way from him , he put his hand in his bag , and took from thence a stone , and put it in his sling , and slung it , and smote the Philistine in the forehead , so that the stone sank into his forehead ; and he fell on his face to the earth .  Now we 'll get even with _him_ ! ''  When she reached the White Hart , and made her way to the proper apartment , she found herself neither arriving quite in time , nor the first to arrive .  said Elinor , reproachfully ; `` a note would have answered every purpose. -- Why was it necessary to call ? ''  A sick child is always the mother 's property : her own feelings generally make it so . ''  But he only laughed , and said , `` Tough piece of land ; it will be a lot better next year . ''  Clarke . ''  But it appears -- I should hope it would be a very happy match .  He had nothing to urge against it , but still resisted the idea of a letter of proper submission ; and therefore , to make it easier to him , as he declared a much greater willingness to make mean concessions by word of mouth than on paper , it was resolved that , instead of writing to Fanny , he should go to London , and personally intreat her good offices in his favour. -- `` And if they really DO interest themselves , '' said Marianne , in her new character of candour , `` in bringing about a reconciliation , I shall think that even John and Fanny are not entirely without merit . ''  And , when thy heart began to beat , What dread hand and what dread feet ?  He sat up , rubbing his eyes , and behold , the fireworks were the very last rays of the setting sun , and the music was the voice of the other traveller , passing the grove on foot !  The two Ducks saw that they could no longer live there , so they decided to fly to another region , where there was more water .  She had sought him .  When they had been all walking together , he had so often come and walked by her , and talked so very delightfully ! -- He seemed to want to be acquainted with her .  Colonel Brandon 's horses were announced .  `` As for the house itself , to be sure , '' said she , `` it is too small for our family , but we will make ourselves tolerably comfortable for the present , as it is too late in the year for improvements .  Mrs. Dashwood did not hear unmoved the vindication of her former favourite .  Still , however , she had the sensation of there being something more than immediately appeared , in Mr Elliot 's wishing , after an interval of so many years , to be well received by them .  By which the Colonel was surprised to find that SHE was considering Mr. Ferrars 's marriage as the certain consequence of the presentation ; for he did not suppose it possible that Delaford living could supply such an income , as anybody in his style of life would venture to settle on -- and he said so .  She had brought evil on Harriet , on herself , and she too much feared , on Mr .  I really think they ought .  As to any thing superior for you , I suppose she is quite in the dark .  Could the event of the disclosure bear an equal resemblance ! -- But of that , unfortunately , there could be no chance .  No one ever likes to admit being afraid , least of all Little Joe Otter .  `` And you DO think something better of me than you did ? ''  Mr. Woodhouse at last was off ; but Mr. Knightley , instead of being immediately off likewise , sat down again , seemingly inclined for more chat .  She gave him credit for stationing himself where he might gaze and gaze again without offence ; but was really obliged to put an end to it , and request him to place himself elsewhere .  A hundred a year would make them all perfectly comfortable . ''  She had something to suffer , perhaps , when they came into contact again , in seeing Anne restored to the rights of seniority , and the mistress of a very pretty landaulette ; but she had a future to look forward to , of powerful consolation .  Edward made no answer .  `` You judged from your knowledge of the Colonel 's general benevolence ; but at least you could not foresee that the opportunity would so very soon occur . ''  She bitterly regretted not having sought a closer acquaintance with her , and blushed for the envious feelings which had certainly been , in some measure , the cause .  He answered rather hesitatingly , `` Yes , I believe I do ; very much recovered ; but she is altered ; there is no running or jumping about , no laughing or dancing ; it is quite different .  Now , however , I see nothing in it but a very natural and consistent degree of discretion .  Depend upon it , we shall soon hear that it is a present from Mr. and Mrs .  I do not know any body who draws so well as you do .  Do you suppose she does not often say all this to herself ?  and Mr Elliot so anxious that he should ! ''  Did not I see them together in Devonshire every day , and all day long ; and did not I know that your sister came to town with me on purpose to buy wedding clothes ?  `` I remember last Christmas at a little hop at the park , he danced from eight o'clock till four , without once sitting down . ''  `` My picture ! -- But he has left my picture in Bond-street . ''  `` I have some hope , '' resumed he , `` of my uncle 's being persuaded to pay a visit at Randalls ; he wants to be introduced to her .  There was instant pleasure in the sight of them , and still greater pleasure was conveyed in sound -- for Mr. Weston immediately accosted her with ,  You must come to visit me and see how nice it is to live in the city . ''  `` I think , '' replied Edward , `` that I may defy many months to produce any good to me . ''  `` So early too !  Mr. Elton , who might marry any body !  The ladies had not been long in the drawing-room , before the other ladies , in their different divisions , arrived .  She had spoken it ; but she trembled when it was done , conscious that her words were listened to , and daring not even to try to observe their effect .  `` Well , Miss Woodhouse , '' said Harriet , when they had quitted the house , and after waiting in vain for her friend to begin ; `` Well , Miss Woodhouse , ( with a gentle sigh , ) what do you think of her ? -- Is not she very charming ? ''  The little Jackals danced on ahead , and the Lion stalked behind .  All equality of alliance must rest with Elizabeth , for Mary had merely connected herself with an old country family of respectability and large fortune , and had therefore given all the honour and received none : Elizabeth would , one day or other , marry suitably .  `` It would not be a great match for her ; but if Henrietta liked him , '' -- and Henrietta did seem to like him .  `` Bless me !  `` If I thought it would not tempt her to go out in sharp winds , and grow coarse , I would send her a new hat and pelisse . ''  The whole party walked about , and looked , and praised again ; and then , having nothing else to do , formed a sort of half-circle round the fire , to observe in their various modes , till other subjects were started , that , though _May_ , a fire in the evening was still very pleasant .  He said it , she knew , to be contradicted .  `` She was determined to drop his acquaintance immediately , and she was very thankful that she had never been acquainted with him at all .  The Harvilles had promised to come with her and stay at Uppercross , whenever she returned .  Once he nearly lost the fish .  He must love her .  And , by what I understand , you might have had lodgings there quite away from the sea -- a quarter of a mile off -- very comfortable .  No letter from Willoughby came ; and none seemed expected by Marianne .  Half a dozen natural children , perhaps -- and poor Frank cut off ! -- This , though very undesirable , would be no matter of agony to her .  Mrs. Weston had set off to pay the visit in a good deal of agitation herself ; and in the first place had wished not to go at all at present , to be allowed merely to write to Miss Fairfax instead , and to defer this ceremonious call till a little time had passed , and Mr. Churchill could be reconciled to the engagement 's becoming known ; as , considering every thing , she thought such a visit could not be paid without leading to reports : -- but Mr. Weston had thought differently ; he was extremely anxious to shew his approbation to Miss Fairfax and her family , and did not conceive that any suspicion could be excited by it ; or if it were , that it would be of any consequence ; for `` such things , '' he observed , `` always got about . ''  But Mrs. Ferrars is a very headstrong proud woman , and in her first fit of anger upon hearing it , would very likely secure every thing to Robert , and the idea of that , for Edward 's sake , frightens away all my inclination for hasty measures . ''  `` No , no , that 's to-morrow ; and I particularly wanted to see Knightley to-day on that very account. -- Such a dreadful broiling morning ! -- I went over the fields too -- ( speaking in a tone of great ill-usage , ) which made it so much the worse .  They had by dint of being so very much together , got to speak to each other with a considerable portion of apparent indifference and calmness ; but he could not do it now .  By the stable wherein lay the Christ Child stood three trees , and as the people came and went under their spreading branches , they thought that they , too , would like to give presents to the Child .  `` Get it all out of her , my dear .  She was earnestly begged to return and dine , and give them all the rest of the day , but her spirits had been so long exerted that at present she felt unequal to more , and fit only for home , where she might be sure of being as silent as she chose .  Thereafter he kept a sharp lookout for signs of Billy Mink , but though he found two or three more trout heads , he saw no other signs and he caught no fish .  The Whale was so pleased with the compliment that he said , `` Yes , '' at once .  `` Nobody ever did think well of the Churchills , I fancy , '' observed Mr. John Knightley coolly .  I would be understood to mean , that it can be only weak , irresolute characters , ( whose happiness must be always at the mercy of chance , ) who will suffer an unfortunate acquaintance to be an inconvenience , an oppression for ever . ''  The Wind was whimpering , and begging to be set free .  You will see her to advantage ; see her and hear her -- no , I am afraid you will not hear her at all , for she has an aunt who never holds her tongue . ''  `` Wait till we 've asked one more !  The day came , the party were punctually assembled , and Mr. John Knightley seemed early to devote himself to the business of being agreeable .  `` I would rather be talking to you , '' he replied ; `` but as it seems a matter of justice , it shall be done . ''  Knightley . ''  There was only a small part of his estate that Sir Walter could dispose of ; but had every acre been alienable , it would have made no difference .  `` Upon the knoll behind the house .  `` Good God ! ''  She then proceeded to say a good deal more than she felt , of the advantage of such an addition to their confined society in Surry ; the pleasure of looking at somebody new ; the gala-day to Highbury entire , which the sight of him would have made ; and ending with reflections on the Churchills again , found herself directly involved in a disagreement with Mr. Knightley ; and , to her great amusement , perceived that she was taking the other side of the question from her real opinion , and making use of Mrs. Weston 's arguments against herself .  She had never been staying there before , without being struck by it , or without wishing that other Elliots could have her advantage in seeing how unknown , or unconsidered there , were the affairs which at Kellynch Hall were treated as of such general publicity and pervading interest ; yet , with all this experience , she believed she must now submit to feel that another lesson , in the art of knowing our own nothingness beyond our own circle , was become necessary for her ; for certainly , coming as she did , with a heart full of the subject which had been completely occupying both houses in Kellynch for many weeks , she had expected rather more curiosity and sympathy than she found in the separate but very similar remark of Mr and Mrs Musgrove : `` So , Miss Anne , Sir Walter and your sister are gone ; and what part of Bath do you think they will settle in ? ''  `` He would certainly have done more justice to simple and elegant prose .  `` I never saw any gentleman 's handwriting '' -- Emma began , looking also at Mrs. Weston ; but stopped , on perceiving that Mrs. Weston was attending to some one else -- and the pause gave her time to reflect , `` Now , how am I going to introduce him ? -- Am I unequal to speaking his name at once before all these people ?  Command yourself enough to say no more , and I will endeavour to forget it . ''  The death of Jesus set me free : Then what have I to do with thee ?  While he talked to Isabella , however , Emma found an opportunity of saying ,  After a time every one went away and left him .  His manners , however , must have been unmarked , wavering , dubious , or she could not have been so misled .  The apples themselves are the very finest sort for baking , beyond a doubt ; all from Donwell -- some of Mr. Knightley 's most liberal supply .  I have now , as far as such a sentiment is allowable in human nature , nothing to reproach myself with ; and if I mistake not , a strong sense of duty is no bad part of a woman 's portion . ''  There was too much wind to make the high part of the new Cobb pleasant for the ladies , and they agreed to get down the steps to the lower , and all were contented to pass quietly and carefully down the steep flight , excepting Louisa ; she must be jumped down them by Captain Wentworth .  As soon as they were out of the house , his enquiries began .  Mrs. Weston , capital in her country-dances , was seated , and beginning an irresistible waltz ; and Frank Churchill , coming up with most becoming gallantry to Emma , had secured her hand , and led her up to the top .  `` I am very glad I did think of her .  `` I do not see how it can be done , '' said she , `` without affronting Lady Middleton , for they spend every day with her ; otherwise I should be exceedingly glad to do it .  She knew the importance of it , and said every thing in her power to do it away .  His son , too well bred to hear the hint , rose immediately also , saying ,  No one can withstand the charm of such a mystery .  She was , in fact , beginning very much to wonder that she had ever thought him pleasing at all ; and his sight was so inseparably connected with some very disagreeable feelings , that , except in a moral light , as a penance , a lesson , a source of profitable humiliation to her own mind , she would have been thankful to be assured of never seeing him again .  Frank 's mother would never have been slighted as she was but for her .  This was all very promising ; and , but for such an unfortunate fancy for having his hair cut , there was nothing to denote him unworthy of the distinguished honour which her imagination had given him ; the honour , if not of being really in love with her , of being at least very near it , and saved only by her own indifference -- ( for still her resolution held of never marrying ) -- the honour , in short , of being marked out for her by all their joint acquaintance .  His mother wished to interest him in political concerns , to get him into parliament , or to see him connected with some of the great men of the day .  Elinor read and returned it without any comment .  Six years hence , if he could meet with a good sort of young woman in the same rank as his own , with a little money , it might be very desirable . ''  `` I will not , '' said the tailor ; `` remain where you are until I come back , and I 'll lift you up . ''  `` Had you any idea of his coming so soon ? ''  If you will , I will love you always . ''  For the present , adieu .  It was but a card party , it was but a mixture of those who had never met before , and those who met too often ; a commonplace business , too numerous for intimacy , too small for variety ; but Anne had never found an evening shorter .  He did not boast , but it naturally betrayed itself , that he had persuaded his aunt where his uncle could do nothing , and on her laughing and noticing it , he owned that he believed ( excepting one or two points ) he could _with_ _time_ persuade her to any thing .  Poor man !  said he , offering his hand .  My poor mother was half frantic . ''  Within a fortnight .  `` That is exactly what I said , my dear .  He pulled harder ; the Elephant pulled harder .  And as he looked at them they began to whisper .  On the morning appointed for Admiral and Mrs Croft 's seeing Kellynch Hall , Anne found it most natural to take her almost daily walk to Lady Russell 's , and keep out of the way till all was over ; when she found it most natural to be sorry that she had missed the opportunity of seeing them .  `` Well , and I had heard of you as a very pretty girl , and what were we to wait for besides ?  Our home is so mean and small . ''  He was not in spirits , however ; he praised their house , admired its prospect , was attentive , and kind ; but still he was not in spirits .  She could not quit that room in peace without seeing Captain Wentworth once more , without the interchange of one friendly look .  Excepting yourself and your brother , I do not know his equal for temper .  I have shewn you Mr Elliot as he was a dozen years ago , and I will shew him as he is now .  They were laying themselves open to that very phrase -- and to having it sent off in a letter to Maple Grove by one lady , to Ireland by another .  When their places were determined on , and they were all properly arranged , she looked round to see if he should happen to be in the same part of the room , but he was not ; her eye could not reach him ; and the concert being just opening , she must consent for a time to be happy in a humbler way .  `` Nay , dear Emma , now I must take his part ; for though he has been wrong in this instance , I have known him long enough to answer for his having many , very many , good qualities ; and -- ''  A short period of exquisite felicity followed , and but a short one .  Elton . ''  `` Infirmity ! ''  She felt that she should like to have had the power of refusal ; and afterwards , as the idea of the party to be assembled there , consisting precisely of those whose society was dearest to her , occurred again and again , she did not know that she might not have been tempted to accept .  Now it was early summer-time , and the cuckoo was calling all the day and most of the night .  This puzzled him more than ever .  Only let me be told when I may speak out. -- I wonder whether Jane has any suspicion . ''  This decision checked Mary 's eagerness , and stopped her short in the midst of the Elliot countenance .  I have no business to put myself forward . ''  She was disgustingly , was suspiciously reserved .  my son , '' cried the hermit , and now his tears were tears of joy .  She was so busy in admiring those soft blue eyes , in talking and listening , and forming all these schemes in the in-betweens , that the evening flew away at a very unusual rate ; and the supper-table , which always closed such parties , and for which she had been used to sit and watch the due time , was all set out and ready , and moved forwards to the fire , before she was aware .  I never could have an idea of any body else -- and so I thought you knew .  `` I beg you , '' he said , `` if you have ever done a single good deed in your life , remember it now , and tell it to me '' ; for he thought that even one good deed would save him from utter despair .  She was sent back , however , in a moment by the entrance of Captain Wentworth himself , among a party of gentlemen and ladies , evidently his acquaintance , and whom he must have joined a little below Milsom Street .  Every minute is valuable .  Anne saw the misery of such feelings .  `` I will take the crown to keep in trust , '' he said .  I can hardly imagine the young man whom I saw talking with you the other day could express himself so well , if left quite to his own powers , and yet it is not the style of a woman ; no , certainly , it is too strong and concise ; not diffuse enough for a woman .  But James will not like to put the horses to for such a little way ; -- and where are the poor horses to be while we are paying our visit ? ''  Weston . ''  At last it was all settled , even to the destination of the parcel .  `` He 's fishing ! ''  He came in with eagerness , appeared to see and think only of her , apologised for his stay , was grieved to have kept her waiting , and anxious to get her away without further loss of time and before the rain increased ; and in another moment they walked off together , her arm under his , a gentle and embarrassed glance , and a `` Good morning to you ! ''  But I want to set your heart at ease as to Mrs. S. -- _My_ representation , you see , has quite appeased her . ''  Then , there is a dove-cote , some delightful stew-ponds , and a very pretty canal ; and every thing , in short , that one could wish for ; and , moreover , it is close to the church , and only a quarter of a mile from the turnpike-road , so 't is never dull , for if you only go and sit up in an old yew arbour behind the house , you may see all the carriages that pass along .  True , upon my honour !  `` Very well , '' said Elizabeth , `` I have nothing to send but my love .  Mr. Elton was called out of the room before tea , old John Abdy 's son wanted to speak with him .  Soon the man felt the hermit 's eyes ; he could not go on with his tricks .  Lady Russell was fond of Bath , in short , and disposed to think it must suit them all ; and as to her young friend 's health , by passing all the warm months with her at Kellynch Lodge , every danger would be avoided ; and it was in fact , a change which must do both health and spirits good .  The sons tried to get him to tell them in what part of the orchard the gold was hidden ; but he would tell them nothing more .  Marianne 's indignation burst forth as soon as he quitted the room ; and as her vehemence made reserve impossible in Elinor , and unnecessary in Mrs. Jennings , they all joined in a very spirited critique upon the party .  I can never get by this shop without stopping .  `` Certainly . ''  Mr. Elton 's superiority had very ample acknowledgment .  I consider one as including the other .  She was happy , she knew she was happy , and knew she ought to be happy .  Her removal was impossible .  `` I felt my luck , Admiral , I assure you ; '' replied Captain Wentworth , seriously .  In the meanwhile the lame horse recovered so fast , that the party to Box Hill was again under happy consideration ; and at last Donwell was settled for one day , and Box Hill for the next , -- the weather appearing exactly right .  He did such fine work that the Elector , Prince Johann Wilhelm , ordered a portrait statue of himself , on horseback , to be done in bronze .  I can not see you acting wrong , without a remonstrance .  We have notice of it in a letter to-day .  `` But have you not received my notes ? ''  Serle understands boiling an egg better than any body .  They were saying , `` Have ye seen this man that is come up ?  After the little Nightingale had flown away , the Emperor felt so well and strong that he dressed himself in his royal robes and took his gold sceptre in his hand .  There was a momentary expression in Captain Wentworth 's face at this speech , a certain glance of his bright eye , and curl of his handsome mouth , which convinced Anne , that instead of sharing in Mrs Musgrove 's kind wishes , as to her son , he had probably been at some pains to get rid of him ; but it was too transient an indulgence of self-amusement to be detected by any who understood him less than herself ; in another moment he was perfectly collected and serious , and almost instantly afterwards coming up to the sofa , on which she and Mrs Musgrove were sitting , took a place by the latter , and entered into conversation with her , in a low voice , about her son , doing it with so much sympathy and natural grace , as shewed the kindest consideration for all that was real and unabsurd in the parent 's feelings .  Every body 's attention was called , and almost every body was concerned. -- Colonel Brandon rose up and went to them without knowing what he did. -- Mrs .  She had too old a regard for him to be so wholly estranged as might in two meetings extinguish every past hope , and leave him nothing to do but to keep away from Uppercross : but there was such a change as became very alarming , when such a man as Captain Wentworth was to be regarded as the probable cause .  Invite them both . ''  Such , for half an hour , was the conversation -- interrupted only once by Mrs. Weston , who came out , in her solicitude after her son-in-law , to inquire if he were come -- and she was a little uneasy. -- She had some fears of his horse .  Of all the sources of evil surrounding the former , since her coming to Highbury , she was persuaded that she must herself have been the worst .  Buster Bear's fishing was spoiled for that day .  `` Ah ! ''  So he took his wings , and fled ; Then the morn blushed rosy red .  But the feelings of her sister were instantly expressed .  happy house , could you know what I suffer in now viewing you from this spot , from whence perhaps I may view you no more ! -- And you , ye well-known trees ! -- but you will continue the same. -- No leaf will decay because we are removed , nor any branch become motionless although we can observe you no longer ! -- No ; you will continue the same ; unconscious of the pleasure or the regret you occasion , and insensible of any change in those who walk under your shade ! -- But who will remain to enjoy you ? ''  `` Upon my honour I did. -- I met Colonel Brandon Monday morning in Bond-street , just before we left town , and he told me of it directly . ''  In my eyes it would be no marriage at all , but that would be nothing .  It would not be fair ; and yet you ought to have proof , for what is all this but assertion , and you shall have proof . ''  I am sure your mother can spare you very well , and I DO beg you will favour me with your company , for I 've quite set my heart upon it .  It had only one leg and one wing and one eye !  `` I am glad I have done being in love with him .  Very thoughtful of Colonel Campbell , was not it ? -- He knew Miss Fairfax could have no music here .  This made the poor Fir very unhappy indeed , and it said , sadly , `` Yes , you are right .  The box was brought and placed before her , and Mrs Smith , sighing over it as she unlocked it , said --  `` I did not mean , I was not thinking of the slave-trade , '' replied Jane ; `` governess-trade , I assure you , was all that I had in view ; widely different certainly as to the guilt of those who carry it on ; but as to the greater misery of the victims , I do not know where it lies .  Anne could think of no one so likely to have spoken with partiality of her many years ago as the Mr Wentworth of Monkford , Captain Wentworth 's brother .  `` Invited ! ''  Yes , Sir , Buster Bear ran away with the big tin pail of Farmer Brown 's boy !  Another room of much better size might be secured for the purpose ; but it was at the other end of the house , and a long awkward passage must be gone through to get at it .  Her good-nature , too , is not so very slight a claim , comprehending , as it does , real , thorough sweetness of temper and manner , a very humble opinion of herself , and a great readiness to be pleased with other people .  Edward was , of course , immediately convinced that nothing could have been more natural than Lucy 's conduct , nor more self-evident than the motive of it .  But do come in .  It would have been very unpleasant to me in every respect .  I tried -- but could not frame a sentence .  Robert the jester came home too .  `` It is certainly an unpleasant thing , '' replied Mr. Dashwood , `` to have those kind of yearly drains on one 's income .  Journeys , London , servants , horses , table -- contractions and restrictions every where !  He had n't known that Buster could climb .  Prince Cherry went at once to Zelia 's dungeon , prepared to do this cruel thing .  said Marianne ; `` my dear Edward , this must not be . ''  But looking at the matter as Little Joe did , it amounted to the same thing .  `` It was short -- merely to announce -- but cheerful , exulting , of course . ''  He had , by that time , realised an easy competence -- enough to secure the purchase of a little estate adjoining Highbury , which he had always longed for -- enough to marry a woman as portionless even as Miss Taylor , and to live according to the wishes of his own friendly and social disposition .  `` She will be more hurt by it , for Robert always was her favourite. -- She will be more hurt by it , and on the same principle will forgive him much sooner . ''  People kept coming to look at the trees and to take them away .  It was much easier to chat than to study ; much pleasanter to let her imagination range and work at Harriet 's fortune , than to be labouring to enlarge her comprehension or exercise it on sober facts ; and the only literary pursuit which engaged Harriet at present , the only mental provision she was making for the evening of life , was the collecting and transcribing all the riddles of every sort that she could meet with , into a thin quarto of hot-pressed paper , made up by her friend , and ornamented with ciphers and trophies .  _That's_ easy enough ; I 'll just blow some little crab-bubbles , and then he will put his paw in where I can get it . ''  In his arms he bore Her , armed with sorrow sore ; Till before their way A couching lion lay .  When the Campbells are returned , we shall meet them in London , and continue there , I trust , till we may carry her northward. -- But now , I am at such a distance from her -- is not it hard , Miss Woodhouse ? -- Till this morning , we have not once met since the day of reconciliation .  But the Fire said , `` Little Half-Chick , little Half-Chick , when I was in trouble you would not help me , '' and burned hotter than ever .  `` He and I should differ very little in our estimation of the two , '' interrupted she , with a sort of serious smile -- '' much less , perhaps , than he is aware of , if we could enter without ceremony or reserve on the subject . ''  And there it stands to-day , in memory of the great love and the great power of plain Margaret Haughery , of New Orleans .  Mrs. Weston undertakes to direct the whole . ''  She could imagine Mrs Clay to have said , that `` now Miss Anne was come , she could not suppose herself at all wanted ; '' for Elizabeth was replying in a sort of whisper , `` That must not be any reason , indeed .  And I hear ; and I bow my head in the summer wind ; and every day they watch me grow more beautiful , till at last I shake out blossoms , fair and fragrant .  he talks of you , '' cried Charles , `` in such terms -- '' Mary interrupted him .  And then he called his son and told him to ask all the uncles and cousins to come to-morrow and cut the corn .  From their counsel , or their conversation , she knew she could receive no assistance , their tenderness and sorrow must add to her distress , while her self-command would neither receive encouragement from their example nor from their praise .  `` Was it from Avignon ?  She only knew that Henrietta was at home again ; and that Louisa , though considered to be recovering fast , was still in Lyme ; and she was thinking of them all very intently one evening , when a thicker letter than usual from Mary was delivered to her ; and , to quicken the pleasure and surprise , with Admiral and Mrs Croft 's compliments .  She suspected that it _had_ ; that it would not have been so resolutely encountered but in full expectation of hearing from some one very dear , and that it had not been in vain .  `` Isabella and Emma both write beautifully , '' said Mr. Woodhouse ; `` and always did .  But the next day there was hard work for Margery 's father !  What is to become of that ? -- Very true .  Mary had shewn herself disobliging to him , and was now to reap the consequence , which consequence was his dropping her arm almost every moment to cut off the heads of some nettles in the hedge with his switch ; and when Mary began to complain of it , and lament her being ill-used , according to custom , in being on the hedge side , while Anne was never incommoded on the other , he dropped the arms of both to hunt after a weasel which he had a momentary glance of , and they could hardly get him along at all .  cried Peter Rabbit .  The circumstance was told him at Hartfield ; for the moment , he was silent ; but Emma heard him almost immediately afterwards say to himself , over a newspaper he held in his hand , `` Hum !  I shall only just mention the circumstance to the others in a common way . ''  He stole up to it very , very softly , so as not to frighten the fish .  The strength of the song falls on the second . ''  Our first care has been to keep the matter secret. -- You knew nothing of me , or my family , and , therefore , there could be no OCCASION for ever mentioning my name to you ; and , as he was always particularly afraid of his sister 's suspecting any thing , THAT was reason enough for his not mentioning it . ''  `` Four years ! ''  `` The idea ! ''  I do n't believe a word of it .  Oh do not walk so fast !  She could not consider her partiality for Edward in so prosperous a state as Marianne had believed it .  `` But will there be good room for five couple ? -- I really do not think there will . ''  `` Such sweet lines ! ''  `` Emma , '' said she , `` this paper is worse than I expected .  It is a necessary of life to me ; and having always been used to a very musical society , both at Maple Grove and in Bath , it would have been a most serious sacrifice .  She got up with a headache , was unable to talk , and unwilling to take any nourishment ; giving pain every moment to her mother and sisters , and forbidding all attempt at consolation from either .  You see , this statue in New Orleans is not quite like anything else .  How could you suppose so ?  Every body last night said how well you played . ''  She looked down as she said this , amiably bashful , with only one side glance at her companion to observe its effect on her .  and I had almost forgotten one idea that occurred to me -- this pianoforte that has been sent here by somebody -- though we have all been so well satisfied to consider it a present from the Campbells , may it not be from Mr. Knightley ?  My sister will be equally sorry to miss the pleasure of seeing you ; but she has been very much plagued lately with nervous head-aches , which make her unfit for company or conversation . ''  She treated her therefore , with all the indulgent fondness of a parent towards a favourite child on the last day of its holidays .  Mrs. Churchill was unwell -- far too unwell to do without him ; she had been in a very suffering state ( so said her husband ) when writing to her nephew two days before , though from her usual unwillingness to give pain , and constant habit of never thinking of herself , she had not mentioned it ; but now she was too ill to trifle , and must entreat him to set off for Enscombe without delay .  `` You consider the matter , '' said Elinor , `` exactly as a good mind and a sound understanding must consider it ; and I dare say you perceive , as well as myself , not only in this , but in many other circumstances , reason enough to be convinced that your marriage must have involved you in many certain troubles and disappointments , in which you would have been poorly supported by an affection , on his side , much less certain .  With a roar of anger Buster Bear charged out of his hiding place .  she was so schared Wid such a wondrous sight , She dropped her apronful of shticks , An ' flew up in a fright , An ' lighted on the bame Across on top the room ; `` Aha ! ''  The corner of the sofa is very good .  Has Colonel Brandon been with you lately ? ''  `` But you can not fly ! ''  It was almost enough to make her think of marrying .  and it will not be very long , I hope , before that becomes the acknowledgment of more than your reason. -- Fortunate that your affections were not farther entangled ! -- I could never , I confess , from your manners , assure myself as to the degree of what you felt -- I could only be certain that there was a preference -- and a preference which I never believed him to deserve. -- He is a disgrace to the name of man. -- And is he to be rewarded with that sweet young woman ? -- Jane , Jane , you will be a miserable creature . ''  So this morning he only went far enough to make sure that if Little Joe were watching for him , as he was sure he would be , he would see him coming .  Finally , the Tiger walked on with him .  To Mrs. Jennings , to the Middletons , he has been long and intimately known ; they equally love and respect him ; and even my own knowledge of him , though lately acquired , is very considerable ; and so highly do I value and esteem him , that if Marianne can be happy with him , I shall be as ready as yourself to think our connection the greatest blessing to us in the world .  `` It is odd though , '' observed his father , `` that you should have had such a regular connected dream about people whom it was not very likely you should be thinking of at Enscombe .  And with these words , he almost ran out of the room .  How much worse , had they been obliged to meet !  She wished she might be able to keep him from an absolute declaration .  Mr Elliot had attempted no apology , and shewn himself as unsolicitous of being longer noticed by the family , as Sir Walter considered him unworthy of it : all acquaintance between them had ceased .  Stay with me on this little gold perch , and sing to me always ! ''  I expected much pleasure in it , but I have found none .  `` The idea ! ''  A superior performer ! -- very far from it , I assure you .  He will be so pleased to see my little ones . ''  She has borne it all , with the fortitude of an angel !  He is brother to Mrs. John Dashwood -- THAT must be recommendation enough to her husband . ''  They were speaking as they drew near .  So there I have the whip hand of you . ''  `` Dreadful ! -- Exactly so , indeed. -- She will be missed every moment . ''  `` No , no , '' -- he gravely replied. -- '' Do n't ask me .  Emma is spoiled by being the cleverest of her family .  You must be a great deal too happy to care for Uppercross , which , as you well know , affords little to write about .  `` Four o'clock ! -- depend upon it he will be here by three , '' was Mr. Weston 's quick amendment ; and so ended a most satisfactory meeting .  Mr. Woodhouse 's peculiarities and fidgetiness were sometimes provoking him to a rational remonstrance or sharp retort equally ill-bestowed .  But even then there was something odd in their way of going on .  It is a melancholy consideration .  I believe the reverse .  Harriet seemed quite forgotten in the expectation of a pleasant party .  `` Oh !  `` This is very kind of Anne , '' was her husband 's answer , `` and I should be very glad to have you go ; but it seems rather hard that she should be left at home by herself , to nurse our sick child . ''  `` It 's the Sunshine , '' said the cheery little voice , `` and I want to come in , I want to come in ! ''  And he steered the little trundle-bed boat straight into the old Moon's face , and bumped his nose !  Lucy was silenced .  Every distinguishing attention that could be paid , was paid to her .  She must see you . ''  He might be only passing through .  I heard from him just before I left Exeter ; '' taking a letter from her pocket and carelessly showing the direction to Elinor .  I hope I have a better taste than to think of Mr. Frank Churchill , who is like nobody by his side .  He must do it all himself .  Their subjects in general were such as belong to an opening acquaintance .  You have got your answer ready . ''  Edward tried to return her kindness as it deserved , but before such witnesses he dared not say half what he really felt .  Another momentary vexation occurred .  .  They lived beyond their income , but still it was nothing in comparison of Enscombe : she did not cease to love her husband , but she wanted at once to be the wife of Captain Weston , and Miss Churchill of Enscombe .  The pity of such a woman as Lady Middleton !  It is a match that must give universal satisfaction .  Her father composed himself to sleep after dinner , as usual , and she had then only to sit and think of what she had lost .  Her introductions and recommendations must all wait , and every projected party be still only talked of .  In feeling , in action , in condition , in every thing . ''  `` This will probably be the case , '' he replied ; `` and yet there is something so amiable in the prejudices of a young mind , that one is sorry to see them give way to the reception of more general opinions . ''  Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun climbed higher and higher in the blue , blue sky .  Modest Sir Walter !  Let every body on the Hill hear me if they can .  Emma , in the meanwhile , could not be satisfied without a dinner at Hartfield for the Eltons .  I have business there ; from thence to town in a day or two .  We must go , for the Westons come to us next week you know .  And at last , as if resolved to qualify his opinion completely for travelling round to its object , he wound it all up with astonishment at the youth and beauty of her person .  You have been no friend to Harriet Smith , Emma .  She says she is afraid there will be draughts in the passage , though every thing has been done -- One door nailed up -- Quantities of matting -- My dear Jane , indeed you must .  Her situation should secure your compassion .  He stopped. -- Emma felt her foot pressed by Mrs. Weston , and did not herself know what to think .  Nobody cares for a letter ; the thing is , to be always happy with pleasant companions .  She meant to be very happy , in spite of the scene being laid at Mr. Cole 's ; and without being able to forget that among the failings of Mr. Elton , even in the days of his favour , none had disturbed her more than his propensity to dine with Mr. Cole .  It will be felt so great an attention !  As to the wretched party left behind , it could scarcely be said which of the three , who were completely rational , was suffering most : Captain Wentworth , Anne , or Charles , who , really a very affectionate brother , hung over Louisa with sobs of grief , and could only turn his eyes from one sister , to see the other in a state as insensible , or to witness the hysterical agitations of his wife , calling on him for help which he could not give .  Margaret , the other sister , was a good-humored , well-disposed girl ; but as she had already imbibed a good deal of Marianne 's romance , without having much of her sense , she did not , at thirteen , bid fair to equal her sisters at a more advanced period of life .  You and I must positively exert our authority . ''  He screamed harder and louder than ever , until his voice grew so hoarse he could n't scream any more , but Farmer Brown 's boy kept right on to the barn .  Your inexperience really amuses me !  She assured him that she had not .  No , Sir , he started straight for the barn .  `` Somebody _has_ been fishing here , and they have had better luck than I have , '' thought he .  About a week after their arrival , it became certain that Willoughby was also arrived .  She must be collected and calm .  She checked herself , however , and submitted quietly to a little more praise than she deserved .  how peculiarly unprepared I was ! -- for I had reason to believe her very lately more determined against him , much more , than she was before . ''  Is any man so daring As dig them up in spite , He shall find their sharpest thorns In his bed at night .  And they gave them terrible tasks to do , without proper rest , or food , or clothes .  Though neither Henrietta , nor Louisa , nor Charles Hayter , nor Captain Wentworth were there , the room presented as strong a contrast as could be wished to the last state she had seen it in .  They might all have hoped to rise by Harriet 's acquaintance : and besides , what was the value of Harriet 's description ? -- So easily pleased -- so little discerning ; -- what signified her praise ?  The little she said was all in lamentation of this inevitable delay ; though Elinor tried to raise her spirits , and make her believe , as she THEN really believed herself , that it would be a very short one .  `` There is no knowing what THEY may expect , '' said the lady , `` but we are not to think of their expectations : the question is , what you can afford to do . ''  The moment of her stepping forward in the Octagon Room to speak to him : the moment of Mr Elliot 's appearing and tearing her away , and one or two subsequent moments , marked by returning hope or increasing despondency , were dwelt on with energy .  `` Law , my dear !  It will give you every thing that you want -- consideration , independence , a proper home -- it will fix you in the centre of all your real friends , close to Hartfield and to me , and confirm our intimacy for ever .  No , she had had enough of interference .  I have this moment heard that the Crofts are going to Bath almost immediately ; they think the Admiral gouty .  It looks as if somebody is trying to -- ha ! ''  `` Oh dear ! ''  He paused -- and growing cooler in a moment , added , with only sarcastic dryness , `` If Mr. Perry can tell me how to convey a wife and five children a distance of an hundred and thirty miles with no greater expense or inconvenience than a distance of forty , I should be as willing to prefer Cromer to South End as he could himself . ''  Small heart had Harriet for visiting .  He could hardly speak , and the tears streamed from his old eyes , but he gathered strength to ask one more question .  Thank you , thank you .  It must not be : and yet the danger of a renewal of the acquaintance ! --  Whenever you are transplanted , like me , Miss Woodhouse , you will understand how very delightful it is to meet with any thing at all like what one has left behind .  It had cost her something to encounter Lady Russell 's surprise ; and now , if she were by any chance to be thrown into company with Captain Wentworth , her imperfect knowledge of the matter might add another shade of prejudice against him .  It is infinitely too bad .  Pray assure him of it . ''  `` Indeed I will , '' said the Camel , who was very fond of sugar-cane .  I doubted it more the next day on Box Hill ; when , provoked by such conduct on my side , such shameful , insolent neglect of her , and such apparent devotion to Miss W. , as it would have been impossible for any woman of sense to endure , she spoke her resentment in a form of words perfectly intelligible to me. -- In short , my dear madam , it was a quarrel blameless on her side , abominable on mine ; and I returned the same evening to Richmond , though I might have staid with you till the next morning , merely because I would be as angry with her as possible .  you are an odd creature ! ''  Poor Edward !  nothing seems to do her any good .  There was no recovering Miss Taylor -- nor much likelihood of ceasing to pity her ; but a few weeks brought some alleviation to Mr. Woodhouse .  `` What cage ? ''  And in spite of the brook's begging , he went away , hoppity-kick , hoppity-kick .  `` You ought to know your friend best , '' replied Mr. Knightley ; `` but I should say she was a good-tempered , soft-hearted girl , not likely to be very , very determined against any young man who told her he loved her . ''  She found that she had been misled by the careful , the considerate attention of her daughter , to think the attachment , which once she had so well understood , much slighter in reality , than she had been wont to believe , or than it was now proved to be .  She said all that was reasonable and proper on the business ; felt the claims of Dr Shirley to repose as she ought ; saw how very desirable it was that he should have some active , respectable young man , as a resident curate , and was even courteous enough to hint at the advantage of such resident curate 's being married .  She says I fidget her to death ; and Miss Woodhouse looks as if she could almost say the same .  If any thing , you are too attentive .  my dear , but Perry had many doubts about the sea doing her any good ; and as to myself , I have been long perfectly convinced , though perhaps I never told you so before , that the sea is very rarely of use to any body .  Harriet , necessarily drawn away by her engagements with the Martins , was less and less at Hartfield ; which was not to be regretted. -- The intimacy between her and Emma must sink ; their friendship must change into a calmer sort of goodwill ; and , fortunately , what ought to be , and must be , seemed already beginning , and in the most gradual , natural manner .  All the rest , in speculation at least , was perfectly smooth .  We talked it all over with Mr. Weston last night .  How often have I heard you speak of it as such a compliment to her ! ''  `` We allowed unnecessary room .  He was proud of his conquest , proud of tricking Edward , and very proud of marrying privately without his mother 's consent .  Anne , seeing her friend to be earnestly bent on it , did as she was desired .  The carriages were then ordered ; Willoughby 's was first , and Marianne never looked happier than when she got into it .  what 's this ? ''  She felt that his influence over her mind was heightened by circumstances which ought not in reason to have weight ; by that person of uncommon attraction , that open , affectionate , and lively manner which it was no merit to possess ; and by that still ardent love for Marianne , which it was not even innocent to indulge .  There was nothing less for Lady Russell to do , than to admit that she had been pretty completely wrong , and to take up a new set of opinions and of hopes .  Gilbert . ''  -- But Mrs. Elton was very much discomposed indeed. -- '' Poor Knightley !  XIV A SURPRISING THING HAPPENS Blacky the Crow and Sammy Jay , looking down from the top of a tall tree , held their breath .  Suddenly , through the open window , there came a most lovely song .  Lord !  He ran away and got a very long , very strong rope , and he got his big drum , and hid the drum a long way off in the bushes .  That was the wind-up of the history ; that was the glory of Miss Hawkins .  I do not pretend to Emma 's genius for foretelling and guessing .  `` To judge from the Colonel 's spirits , however , you have not yet made him equally sanguine . ''  But sometimes of an evening , before we went to cards , he would read something aloud out of the Elegant Extracts , very entertaining .  It did not show at all , unless one were quite near it .  I am losing all my bitterness against spoilt children , my dearest Emma .  Seats tolerably in the shade were found ; and now Emma was obliged to overhear what Mrs. Elton and Jane Fairfax were talking of. -- A situation , a most desirable situation , was in question .  THE FROG KING Did you ever hear the old story about the foolish Frogs ?  `` Quit Kellynch Hall . ''  perfectly .  Then continuing his former tone , he said , `` And yet this house you would spoil , Mrs. Dashwood ?  He had gone beyond the sweep -- some way along the Highbury road -- the snow was nowhere above half an inch deep -- in many places hardly enough to whiten the ground ; a very few flakes were falling at present , but the clouds were parting , and there was every appearance of its being soon over .  She then took a longer time for consideration .  So far from having long understood you , I have been in a most complete error with respect to your views , till this moment .  I want your interest with him .  The stupidest fellow !  Harriet 's claims to marry well are not so contemptible as you represent them .  My feelings are at present in a state of dreadful indecision ; I wish to acquit you , but certainty on either side will be ease to what I now suffer .  Emma continued to entertain no doubt of her being in love .  And , as the cow chased him , he looked over his shoulder and cried , -- `` Run !  At one moment she was absolutely indifferent to the observation of all the world , at another she would seclude herself from it for ever , and at a third could resist it with energy .  It was on the grass plot that the garden was to be .  It was a most beautiful tiny necklace , all made of jewels , and it was just big enough for a lady mouse .  is it you ?  I am sure , rather than run the risk of hurting Mr. and Mrs. Cole , you would stay a little longer than you might wish .  No one could dispute her right to come ; the house was her husband 's from the moment of his father 's decease ; but the indelicacy of her conduct was so much the greater , and to a woman in Mrs. Dashwood 's situation , with only common feelings , must have been highly unpleasing ; -- but in HER mind there was a sense of honor so keen , a generosity so romantic , that any offence of the kind , by whomsoever given or received , was to her a source of immoveable disgust .  `` As to who , or what Miss Hawkins is , or how long he has been acquainted with her , '' said Emma , `` nothing I suppose can be known .  He was astonished , indeed , but his character and general conduct must refute it .  He ate happily , and noticed nothing around him .  Anne was caught .  It is Mrs. Dixon , I dare say .  `` Indeed I shall be very much obliged to you for your help , '' cried Lucy , `` for I find there is more to be done to it than I thought there was ; and it would be a shocking thing to disappoint dear Annamaria after all . ''  We lived for enjoyment .  `` God save you , '' said the tailor .  But I ca n't bear to see them dirty and nasty .  `` Lord !  We can not help ourselves .  Such kind friends , you know , Miss Woodhouse , one must always find agreeable , though every body seemed rather fagged after the morning 's party .  `` Did not you think him sadly out of spirits ? ''  Look at the tree . ''  Elinor was silent .  To do him justice , he did every thing in his power to promote their unreserve , by making the Miss Steeles acquainted with whatever he knew or supposed of his cousins ' situations in the most delicate particulars , -- and Elinor had not seen them more than twice , before the eldest of them wished her joy on her sister 's having been so lucky as to make a conquest of a very smart beau since she came to Barton .  Louisa liked theatricals better than anything .  `` Mrs. Dixon !  In Mrs. Dashwood 's estimation he was as faultless as in Marianne 's ; and Elinor saw nothing to censure in him but a propensity , in which he strongly resembled and peculiarly delighted her sister , of saying too much what he thought on every occasion , without attention to persons or circumstances .  He was so curious to know what it all meant that he could n't wait another minute .  It looked as if some one had just stirred up all the mud at the bottom .  Sometimes the plough struck a hidden stone , and then the man was jerked almost off his feet .  `` Leave out the two last lines , and there is no reason why you should not write it into your book . ''  `Dearer , much dearer than ever . '  `` You mean Mr Wentworth , I suppose ? ''  As for Isabella , she has been married long enough to see the convenience of putting all the Mr. Westons aside as much as she can . ''  My partiality does not blind me ; he certainly is not so handsome as Willoughby -- but at the same time , there is something much more pleasing in his countenance. -- There was always a something , -- if you remember , -- in Willoughby 's eyes at times , which I did not like . ''  These were the ladies whom Emma found herself very frequently able to collect ; and happy was she , for her father 's sake , in the power ; though , as far as she was herself concerned , it was no remedy for the absence of Mrs. Weston .  I had therefore nothing in the world to do , but to fancy myself in love ; and as my mother did not make my home in every respect comfortable , as I had no friend , no companion in my brother , and disliked new acquaintance , it was not unnatural for me to be very often at Longstaple , where I always felt myself at home , and was always sure of a welcome ; and accordingly I spent the greatest part of my time there from eighteen to nineteen : Lucy appeared everything that was amiable and obliging .  I am not fond of nettles or thistles , or heath blossoms .  She began almost to feel a dislike of Edward ; and it ended , as every feeling must end with her , by carrying back her thoughts to Willoughby , whose manners formed a contrast sufficiently striking to those of his brother elect .  Money , you know , coming down with money -- two daughters at once -- it can not be a very agreeable operation , and it streightens him as to many things .  They shew her to the greatest advantage .  He had been several years at sea , and had , in the course of those removals to which all midshipmen are liable , and especially such midshipmen as every captain wishes to get rid of , been six months on board Captain Frederick Wentworth 's frigate , the Laconia ; and from the Laconia he had , under the influence of his captain , written the only two letters which his father and mother had ever received from him during the whole of his absence ; that is to say , the only two disinterested letters ; all the rest had been mere applications for money .  He said no more .  my dear , it is quite understood , I give you my word .  `` I have heard , '' said he , with great compassion , `` of the injustice your friend Mr. Ferrars has suffered from his family ; for if I understand the matter right , he has been entirely cast off by them for persevering in his engagement with a very deserving young woman. -- Have I been rightly informed ? -- Is it so ? -- ''  If he were , he would have done this differently .  His opinion , however , made some little amends for his delay , for though acknowledging a very unexpected and unpleasant alteration in his patient , he would not allow the danger to be material , and talked of the relief which a fresh mode of treatment must procure , with a confidence which , in a lesser degree , was communicated to Elinor .  Quite wonderful how she does her hair ! -- No hairdresser from London I think could. -- Ah !  `` I have to thank you , Miss Woodhouse , for a very kind forgiving message in one of Mrs. Weston 's letters .  She was not doomed , however , to be long in ignorance of his measures .  I have a great deal of vivacity in my own way , but I really must be allowed to judge when to speak and when to hold my tongue .  It is a very simple plan , and if you will all hide where you can watch , you will be able to see for yourselves if Little Joe Otter is right .  `` Yes , for I am unable to keep my engagement with you .  `` Oh !  And on my own account too -- so dear as he is to me -- I do n't think I could be equal to it .  They are parting ; they are shaking hands .  I am not at all afraid .  As bluntly as he could speak it , therefore , he told me that Marianne Dashwood was dying of a putrid fever at Cleveland -- a letter that morning received from Mrs. Jennings declared her danger most imminent -- the Palmers are all gone off in a fright , & c. -- I was too much shocked to be able to pass myself off as insensible even to the undiscerning Sir John .  `` All this , '' thought Elinor , `` is very pretty ; but it can impose upon neither of us . ''  They had each had money , but their marriages had made a material difference in their degree of consequence .  `` I kept my letter open , that I might send you word how Louisa bore her journey , and now I am extremely glad I did , having a great deal to add .  The old Alligator lashed with his tail and snapped with his jaws , but it was too late ; the little Jackal was out of reach .  They walked up stairs in to the drawing-room. -- Nobody was there .  Why was she to suspect herself of another motive ?  What shall I do ? ''  I can understand you -- ( nodding at Mr. John Knightley ) -- your good fortune in meeting with so many of your friends at once here , delights you too much to pass unnoticed .  THE ECHOING GREEN The sun does arise , And make happy the skies ; The merry bells ring To welcome the Spring ; The skylark and thrush , The birds of the bush , Sing louder around To the bells ' cheerful sound ; While our sports shall be seen On the echoing Green .  `` No , I just know his name .  Had I died , -- it would have been self-destruction .  Charles Musgrove was civil and agreeable ; in sense and temper he was undoubtedly superior to his wife , but not of powers , or conversation , or grace , to make the past , as they were connected together , at all a dangerous contemplation ; though , at the same time , Anne could believe , with Lady Russell , that a more equal match might have greatly improved him ; and that a woman of real understanding might have given more consequence to his character , and more usefulness , rationality , and elegance to his habits and pursuits .  She laughed because she was disappointed ; and though she liked him for his attentions , and thought them all , whether in friendship , admiration , or playfulness , extremely judicious , they were not winning back her heart .  He had made his fortune , bought his house , and obtained his wife ; and was beginning a new period of existence , with every probability of greater happiness than in any yet passed through .  `` Pray , pray be composed , '' cried Elinor , `` and do not betray what you feel to every body present .  It will be a very fine object from many parts of the park , and the flower-garden will slope down just before it , and be exceedingly pretty .  Churchill 's state , however , as many were ready to remind her , was liable to such sudden variation as might disappoint her nephew in the most reasonable dependence -- and Mrs. Weston was at last persuaded to believe , or to say , that it must be by some attack of Mrs. Churchill that he was prevented coming. -- Emma looked at Harriet while the point was under consideration ; she behaved very well , and betrayed no emotion .  Her three notes -- unluckily they were all in my pocketbook , or I should have denied their existence , and hoarded them for ever -- I was forced to put them up , and could not even kiss them .  After the farmer was dead , the sons went to work to find the pot of gold ; since they did not know where the hiding-place was , they agreed to begin in a line , at one end of the orchard , and to dig until one of them should find the money .  Here am I come down for only one day , and you are engaged with a dinner-party ! -- When did it happen before , or any thing like it ?  I must do THIS justice to Mr. Willoughby -- he has broken no positive engagement with my sister . ''  He had not seen me then above twice , for it was before I left school .  How can she find any appellation for them , deep enough in familiar vulgarity ?  That is the key to a great deal of capacity .  `` Success supposes endeavour .  Then the snow will sink down and wrap me close .  I do not know her , even by sight . ''  They joined company and proceeded together .  So far it was decided ; and Henrietta at first declared the same .  But they had no curiosity to see how Mr. and Mrs. Palmer ate their dinner , and no expectation of pleasure from them in any other way .  Then the statue was unveiled .  Sir John is as stupid as the weather . ''  Mr. Knightley , I shall not allow you to be a fair judge in this case .  His appearance however was not unpleasing , in spite of his being in the opinion of Marianne and Margaret an absolute old bachelor , for he was on the wrong side of five and thirty ; but though his face was not handsome , his countenance was sensible , and his address was particularly gentlemanlike .  Yes , I immediately perceive that it must be the joint present of Mr. and Mrs. Dixon .  He brought his spade and shovel , and he made a hole , and he asked the old white horse to go down into it so that he could see if it would fit him .  `` He had just looked into the dining-room , and as he was not wanted there , preferred being out of doors . ''  Knightley . '  Elinor said no more ; it immediately struck her that she must then be writing to Willoughby ; and the conclusion which as instantly followed was , that , however mysteriously they might wish to conduct the affair , they must be engaged .  If Mr. Elton , on his return , made his own indifference as evident and indubitable as she could not doubt he would anxiously do , she could not imagine Harriet 's persisting to place her happiness in the sight or the recollection of him .  poor woman , who would have thought it ! ''  My cousin Anne shakes her head .  The harp answered with the magic Music of Tears .  Then the Parson might preach , and drink , and sing , And we 'd be as happy as birds in the spring ; And modest Dame Lurch , who is always at church , Would not have bandy children , nor fasting , nor birch .  I have a great regard for Mr. Perry .  And there can be no reason why you should not try for him .  She now felt a great inclination to go to the outer door ; she wanted to see if it rained .  Well , I wish him out of all his trouble with all my heart , and a good wife into the bargain . ''  Come on !  Find some body for me .  Her early impressions were incurable .  How completely it meant , `why should my picture be drawn ? ' ''  He gave her a momentary glance , a glance of brightness , which seemed to say , `` That man is struck with you , and even I , at this moment , see something like Anne Elliot again . ''  He has been gone only four weeks . ''  The business of self-command she settled very easily ; -- with strong affections it was impossible , with calm ones it could have no merit .  `` She would indeed .  `` Ah !  They had the pleasure of assuring her that Bath more than answered their expectations in every respect .  This would not , in itself , have been sufficient for the delicacy of Miss Dashwood ; -- but it was inforced with so much real politeness by Mr. Palmer himself , as , joined to the very great amendment of his manners towards them since her sister had been known to be unhappy , induced her to accept it with pleasure .  She could not do so , without comparing herself with Miss Larolles , the inimitable Miss Larolles ; but still she did it , and not with much happier effect ; though by what seemed prosperity in the shape of an early abdication in her next neighbours , she found herself at the very end of the bench before the concert closed .  `` Yes -- a good deal _nearer_ . ''  There are many such stories , each different from the other , all showing that the same childlike spirit of inquiry was at work in different places , striving to find an answer to this riddle of nature .  Oh !  It was the scrape which he had drawn her into on Harriet 's account , that gave the deepest hue to his offence. -- Poor Harriet !  `` No , no , no , '' cried Marianne wildly , `` he loves you , and only you .  Poor dear , it seems quite cruel to let her be alone .  But hardly were they so settled , when the door opened again , and Captain Wentworth walked in alone .  I remember Fanny used to say that she would marry sooner and better than you did ; not but what she is exceedingly fond of YOU , but so it happened to strike her .  said she .  The contrast between the countenance and air of Mr. Knightley and Robert Martin was , at this moment , so strong to Emma 's feelings , and so strong was the recollection of all that had so recently passed on Harriet 's side , so fresh the sound of those words , spoken with such emphasis , `` No , I hope I know better than to think of Robert Martin , '' that she was really expecting the intelligence to prove , in some measure , premature .  `` I will , '' said the giant , giving such a prod of the knife into his own stomach that he killed himself .  Lady Middleton too , though she did not press their mother , pressed them .  They were people whom her heart turned to very naturally .  `` Indeed ! -- that must be a very great pleasure . ''  I assure you mine are very different .  They had gone , in short -- and very great had been the evident distress and confusion of the lady .  Of breakfast she had been kept by her fears , and of dinner by their sudden reverse , from eating much ; -- and the present refreshment , therefore , with such feelings of content as she brought to it , was particularly welcome .  No difficulty arose on either side in the agreement ; and she waited only for the disposal of her effects at Norland , and to determine her future household , before she set off for the west ; and this , as she was exceedingly rapid in the performance of everything that interested her , was soon done. -- The horses which were left her by her husband had been sold soon after his death , and an opportunity now offering of disposing of her carriage , she agreed to sell that likewise at the earnest advice of her eldest daughter .  The third day succeeding their knowledge of the particulars , was so fine , so beautiful a Sunday as to draw many to Kensington Gardens , though it was only the second week in March .  `` Then she is a greater simpleton than I ever believed her .  She brought no name , no blood , no alliance .  She had the kindest `` Good morning , God bless you ! ''  CHAPTER IX  Her apprehensions once raised , paid by their excess for all her former security ; and the servant who sat up with her , for she would not allow Mrs. Jennings to be called , only tortured her more , by hints of what her mistress had always thought .  A note was just then brought in , and laid on the table ,  You understand every thing .  but Jane Fairfax has them both , Harriet . ''  I have not an idea -- I can not guess it in the least .  His visit afforded her but a very partial satisfaction , while his own enjoyment in it appeared so imperfect .  She wished it might be possible for her to avoid ever seeing Captain Wentworth at the Hall : those rooms had witnessed former meetings which would be brought too painfully before her ; but she was yet more anxious for the possibility of Lady Russell and Captain Wentworth never meeting anywhere .  To be sure , the charade , with its `` ready wit '' -- but then the `` soft eyes '' -- in fact it suited neither ; it was a jumble without taste or truth .  Ao !  For Miss -- -- -- -- -- , read Miss Smith .  You are not aware of what you are doing .  If I could but have kept longer away ! ''  Sir Walter has resented it .  `` I am , '' said he .  No , she had heard from him very lately , but having answered the letter , had put it away .  `` Very true , '' he gravely replied ; `` it was very bad . ''  I was not aware of it myself .  `` Excuse me , ma'am , but this is by no means my intention ; I make no inquiry myself , and should be sorry to have any made by my friends .  `` True .  Promptly at midnight , the little naked elves came in .  I want to puzzle you again . ''  No , I have no idea of being so easily persuaded .  She was too completely overpowered to be immediately able to reply : and two moments of silence being ample encouragement for Mr. Elton 's sanguine state of mind , he tried to take her hand again , as he joyously exclaimed --  Elinor was very earnest in her application to her mother , relating all that had passed , her suspicions of Willoughby 's inconstancy , urging her by every plea of duty and affection to demand from Marianne an account of her real situation with respect to him .  Would they only have laughed at her about the Doctor !  I admired your spirit ; and I dare say we shall get home very well .  he has been dead these eight years and better .  Lady Russell felt obliged to oppose her dear Anne 's known wishes .  Mr. Woodhouse was fond of society in his own way .  `` Not I , '' said the Goose .  The insipidity of the meeting was exactly such as Elinor had expected ; it produced not one novelty of thought or expression , and nothing could be less interesting than the whole of their discourse both in the dining parlour and drawing room : to the latter , the children accompanied them , and while they remained there , she was too well convinced of the impossibility of engaging Lucy 's attention to attempt it .  When he looked down at himself , as far as he could look , he saw that he was all hung with gold and silver chains !  But whether she would do for a lady 's maid , I am sure I ca n't tell .  And that I was a maiden Queen Guarded by an Angel mild : Witless woe was ne'er beguiled !  At last , a little girl who worked in the kitchen to help the cook , said , `` Oh , yes , I know the Nightingale very well .  Perry ? -- Has he been here this morning ? -- And how does he travel now ? -- Has he set up his carriage ? ''  `` Oh !  He always whistles when he feels light-hearted , and he always feels light-hearted when he goes fishing .  `` Dear ma'am , this kindness is quite unnecessary .  Is not it what you have often wished to do yourself ? ''  He was turning it all over in his mind and studying what it could mean , when he came to a little muddy place on the bank of the Laughing Brook , and there he saw something that made his eyes look as if they would pop right out of his head , and it was right then that he felt his hair rise .  You quite shock me ; if you mean a fling at the slave-trade , I assure you Mr. Suckling was always rather a friend to the abolition . ''  Mrs. Jennings soon appeared , and the note being given her , she read it aloud .  Anne had been ashamed to appear to comprehend so soon as she really did ; but now she could safely suggest the name of `` Louisa . ''  But Emma still shook her head in steady scepticism .  Charles , if you see Captain Harville anywhere , remember to give Miss Anne 's message .  And still more and more , till it was like an army of black , hopping , crawling crickets , streaming down the side of the mountain to kill the crops .  Elinor was grateful for the attention , but it could not alter her design ; and their mother 's concurrence being readily gained , every thing relative to their return was arranged as far as it could be ; -- and Marianne found some relief in drawing up a statement of the hours that were yet to divide her from Barton .  She exerted herself , and did try to make her comfortable , by considering all that had passed as a mere trifle , and quite unworthy of being dwelt on ,  `` I was six weeks with Edward , '' said he , `` and saw him happy .  She was soon undressed and in bed , and as she seemed desirous of being alone , her sister then left her , and while she waited the return of Mrs. Jennings , had leisure enough for thinking over the past .  `` Ah believe yo ' are right again , Brer Otter , '' said he .  `` But , Captain Wentworth , '' cried Louisa , `` how vexed you must have been when you came to the Asp , to see what an old thing they had given you . ''  I can not at all consent to Mr. Knightley 's marrying ; and I am sure it is not at all likely .  -- He met her at the parlour-door , and hardly asking her how she did , in the natural key of his voice , sunk it immediately , to say , unheard by her father ,  Such a conclusion could not pass unanswered by Mrs. Weston .  The Eagle soared slowly overhead a moment , then he came lower , and spoke in a thin , clear voice .  `` Oh , Elinor ! ''  He had turned away , and the horses were in motion .  `` Mrs. Elton , I suppose , has been the person to whom Miss Fairfax owes -- ''  This was almost cruel .  Anne longed for the power of representing to them all what they were about , and of pointing out some of the evils they were exposing themselves to .  `` Beg pardon ? ''  One can see that she feels the want of encouragement .  There is great truth , however , in what you have now urged of the allowances which ought to be made for him , and it is my wish to be candid in my judgment of every body .  `` I agree with you exactly .  speaking to her in a lowered voice .  They were gradually acquainted , and when acquainted , rapidly and deeply in love .  Then the little fairy-fingers seized the broom , and in a twinkling they were making the house clean .  He could n't get at them .  It was certainly carried nearly as far as possible , for they met every morning , and hardly ever spent an evening asunder ; but she believed they should not have done so well without the sight of Mr and Mrs Musgrove 's respectable forms in the usual places , or without the talking , laughing , and singing of their daughters .  Elinor could not find herself in the carriage with Mrs. Jennings , and beginning a journey to London under her protection , and as her guest , without wondering at her own situation , so short had their acquaintance with that lady been , so wholly unsuited were they in age and disposition , and so many had been her objections against such a measure only a few days before !  That must be enough for us both . ''  Weston . ''  I am a little slow of understanding .  It was only necessary to mention any favourite amusement to engage her to talk .  Who cried most ? ''  You would have thrown yourself out of all good society .  Elinor wished to talk of something else , but Lucy still pressed her to own that she had reason for her happiness ; and Elinor was obliged to go on. --  `` And if I did , ( which , however , I am far from allowing ) I should not feel that I had done wrong .  He did speak yesterday -- that is , he wrote , and was refused . ''  When she became sensible of this , it struck her that she could not be very much in love ; for in spite of her previous and fixed determination never to quit her father , never to marry , a strong attachment certainly must produce more of a struggle than she could foresee in her own feelings .  With her children they were in continual raptures , extolling their beauty , courting their notice , and humouring their whims ; and such of their time as could be spared from the importunate demands which this politeness made on it , was spent in admiration of whatever her ladyship was doing , if she happened to be doing any thing , or in taking patterns of some elegant new dress , in which her appearance the day before had thrown them into unceasing delight .  `` Well , well , ladies are the best judges ; but James Benwick is rather too piano for me ; and though very likely it is all our partiality , Sophy and I can not help thinking Frederick 's manners better than his .  Nobody doubts it ; and I hope you do not think I am so illiberal as to want every man to have the same objects and pleasures as myself .  Nonsense !  And ever since she was twelve , Emma has been mistress of the house and of you all .  Emma 's very good opinion of Frank Churchill was a little shaken the following day , by hearing that he was gone off to London , merely to have his hair cut .  was an inquiry which sprung from the impatience of her mind to have something going on .  `` I can answer for it that Miss Dashwood 's is not , '' said Mrs. Jennings , laughing heartily ; `` for he is one of the modestest , prettiest behaved young men I ever saw ; but as for Lucy , she is such a sly little creature , there is no finding out who SHE likes . ''  `` Not yet , '' cried the other , concealing her terror , and assisting Marianne to lie down again , `` but she will be here , I hope , before it is long .  I have explained it to myself in the most satisfactory way ; -- but you , Elinor , who love to doubt where you can -- it will not satisfy YOU , I know ; but you shall not talk ME out of my trust in it .  `` Undoubtedly ; and after all you have no thanks for it .  When he talked , she heard the same voice , and discerned the same mind .  Instead of drawing his brother off to a window while they waited for dinner , he was talking to Miss Fairfax .  Elinor 's delight , as she saw what each felt in the meeting , was only checked by an apprehension of its robbing Marianne of farther sleep ; -- but Mrs. Dashwood could be calm , could be even prudent , when the life of a child was at stake , and Marianne , satisfied in knowing her mother was near her , and conscious of being too weak for conversation , submitted readily to the silence and quiet prescribed by every nurse around her .  After a short struggle , however , Charles Hayter seemed to quit the field .  for they say he is monstrous fond of her , as well he may .  `` Your uncle ! ''  and ran as fast as he could to the hole .  Miss Taylor , if you had not married , you would have staid at home with me . ''  she said .  Harriet did not consider herself as having any thing to complain of .  `` It is a great pity that their circumstances should be so confined !  `` They are blended , '' said he , `` I acknowledge ; and , were she prosperous , I could allow much for the occasional prevalence of the ridiculous over the good .  It was such a simple plan that everybody agreed to it .  This would be a trial .  `` Are you serious ? ''  Elizabeth had been lately forming an intimacy , which she wished to see interrupted .  And so the letter that came today finished it !  Mr. John Knightley was a tall , gentleman-like , and very clever man ; rising in his profession , domestic , and respectable in his private character ; but with reserved manners which prevented his being generally pleasing ; and capable of being sometimes out of humour .  `` Do n't worry , '' said the mother Lark ; `` the uncles and cousins have plenty of reaping to do for themselves ; we 'll not move yet . ''  `` You need not be at any pains to reconcile me to the match .  What was unwholesome to him he regarded as unfit for any body ; and he had , therefore , earnestly tried to dissuade them from having any wedding-cake at all , and when that proved vain , as earnestly tried to prevent any body 's eating it .  Only conceive how comfortable they will be !  What ever she might feel of brighter hope , she betrayed nothing .  But Farmer Brown laughed so much and made fun of him so much , that at last his boy began to think that he must have been mistaken after all .  `` To confess the truth , '' said Mrs Smith , assuming her usual air of cheerfulness , `` that is exactly the pleasure I want you to have .  In that , he could not be defended ; but if he had injured her , how much more had he injured himself ; if her case were pitiable , his was hopeless .  One day a Brahmin was walking along a country road when he came upon a Tiger , shut up in a strong iron cage .  `` You are very obliging. -- Frank will be extremely happy , I am sure. -- He is to be in town next week , if not sooner .  How very extraordinary !  She ran to the house and found her father .  my dear Fanny ; her life can not be worth half that purchase . ''  She pondered , but could think of nothing .  She is the natural daughter of nobody knows whom , with probably no settled provision at all , and certainly no respectable relations .  Lucy directly drew her work table near her and reseated herself with an alacrity and cheerfulness which seemed to infer that she could taste no greater delight than in making a filigree basket for a spoilt child .  After attending Louisa through her business , and loitering about a little longer , they returned to the inn ; and Anne , in passing afterwards quickly from her own chamber to their dining-room , had nearly run against the very same gentleman , as he came out of an adjoining apartment .  She could not be alone without feeling the full weight of their separate claims ; and how to guard the comfort of both to the utmost , was the question .  Then if thou art the food of worms , O virgin of the skies , How great thy use , how great thy blessing , every thing that lives .  ( A banyan tree is a kind of fruit tree . )  For I dance And drink , and sing , Till some blind hand Shall brush my wing .  He wanted her to look up and smile ; and having now brought herself not to smile too broadly -- she did -- cheerfully answering ,  Do try to find it out , Miss Woodhouse .  `` Well , my dear Jane , I believe we must be running away .  Anne suppressed a smile , and listened kindly , while Mrs Musgrove relieved her heart a little more ; and for a few minutes , therefore , could not keep pace with the conversation of the others .  shark is only one syllable .  The first time that he noticed that even a king could not always have his own way was on a day when he went hunting .  You had made your own choice .  Mrs. Jennings wrote to tell the wonderful tale , to vent her honest indignation against the jilting girl , and pour forth her compassion towards poor Mr. Edward , who , she was sure , had quite doted upon the worthless hussy , and was now , by all accounts , almost broken-hearted , at Oxford. -- `` I do think , '' she continued , `` nothing was ever carried on so sly ; for it was but two days before Lucy called and sat a couple of hours with me .  Mrs Clay had freckles , and a projecting tooth , and a clumsy wrist , which he was continually making severe remarks upon , in her absence ; but she was young , and certainly altogether well-looking , and possessed , in an acute mind and assiduous pleasing manners , infinitely more dangerous attractions than any merely personal might have been .  It has been completely unexpected .  `` This is very true , '' said she , `` at least as far as relates to me , which was all that was meant -- and it is very shameful. -- Of the same age -- and always knowing her -- I ought to have been more her friend. -- She will never like me now .  But it WAS said , I know , very well , and by more than one ; for Miss Godby told Miss Sparks , that nobody in their senses could expect Mr. Ferrars to give up a woman like Miss Morton , with thirty thousand pounds to her fortune , for Lucy Steele that had nothing at all ; and I had it from Miss Sparks myself .  `` Marianne 's note , by assuring me that I was still as dear to her as in former days , that in spite of the many , many weeks we had been separated , she was as constant in her own feelings , and as full of faith in the constancy of mine as ever , awakened all my remorse .  Was she out with him today ? ''  His face is much more terrible , and his roar far , far more dreadful .  `` This sensation of listlessness , weariness , stupidity , this disinclination to sit down and employ myself , this feeling of every thing 's being dull and insipid about the house ! -- I must be in love ; I should be the oddest creature in the world if I were not -- for a few weeks at least .  He held the card in his hand after they were gone , as if deeply considering it .  I assure you I am not at all pleased .  `` But I do assure you it was so , for all that , and I will tell you how it happened .  This is an attachment which a woman may well feel pride in creating .  `` Thank you .  Elinor , rejoiced to be assured of his being in London , now ventured to say , `` Depend upon it , he will call again tomorrow . ''  how eloquent , at least , were her wishes on the side of early warm attachment , and a cheerful confidence in futurity , against that over-anxious caution which seems to insult exertion and distrust Providence !  Mr. Elton returned , a very happy man .  Could Anne have foreseen such a junction , she would have staid at home ; but , from some feelings of interest and curiosity , she fancied now that it was too late to retract , and the whole six set forward together in the direction chosen by the Miss Musgroves , who evidently considered the walk as under their guidance .  If he had been anxious for secrecy , he would not have left the paper while I was by ; but he rather pushed it towards me than towards you .  Surry is full of beauties . ''  What is Mr Elliot to me ? ''  `` If I whistle , '' thought he , `` everybody will know just where I am , and will keep out of sight , and I never can get acquainted with folks if they keep out of sight . ''  Good-by ; I am sorry Miss Marianne was not here .  `` There comes a foolish green fly , '' said he .  `` Oh !  `` Beautifully indeed !  A whole evening of back-gammon with her father , was felicity to it .  And how tired you must be after your journey !  And here I can admit , that my manners to Miss W. , in being unpleasant to Miss F. , were highly blameable .  `` Miss Elliot , '' said he , speaking rather low , `` you have done a good deed in making that poor fellow talk so much .  `` Indeed I will .  `` Pity me , dear Miss Dashwood ! ''  replied he , with a sigh .  They were indebted , the next day , to Charles Hayter , for all the minute knowledge of Louisa , which it was so essential to obtain every twenty-four hours .  Now , an attachment to Harriet Smith would have nothing to encounter .  what was his name ?  The first remote sound to which she felt herself obliged to attend , was the name of Jane Fairfax .  `` With a great deal of pleasure , sir , at any time , '' said Mr. Knightley , laughing , `` and I agree with you entirely , that it will be a much better thing .  An hour 's complete leisure for such reflections as these , on a dark November day , a small thick rain almost blotting out the very few objects ever to be discerned from the windows , was enough to make the sound of Lady Russell 's carriage exceedingly welcome ; and yet , though desirous to be gone , she could not quit the Mansion House , or look an adieu to the Cottage , with its black , dripping and comfortless veranda , or even notice through the misty glasses the last humble tenements of the village , without a saddened heart .  She was married -- married against her inclination to my brother .  What am I to tell you ?  Elinor made no answer .  Then he and his rulers did a wicked thing .  She knows their ways best ; but I should not consider their silence as any reason for their not meaning to make the present .  It then occurred to her to employ him in reading .  my dear , ' said I -- well , and just then came the note .  We do not call Bermuda or Bahama , you know , the West Indies . ''  Her character appeared absolutely changed .  Tunbridge Wells , '' and dated from London , as far back as July , 1803 : --  Perhaps just at present he may be undecided ; the smallness of your fortune may make him hang back ; his friends may all advise him against it .  Captain Wentworth , however , came from his window , apparently not ill-disposed for conversation ; but Charles Hayter soon put an end to his attempts by seating himself near the table , and taking up the newspaper ; and Captain Wentworth returned to his window .  Unc' Billy Possum chuckled .  Then Blacky the Crow leaned down from his perch in the Big Hickory-tree and looked very hard at Little Joe as he said : `` I do n't believe it .  Whenever they met one another , all they could talk about was the smartness and the greatness of Buster Bear .  said Margery , carefully .  do not tell _me_ .  WINDSOR-JULY .  It would be a favor to me which Ah cert'nly would appreciate , '' said Unc ' Billy Possum when he heard the news .  `` Yet you wrote to him ? ''  `` Oh !  In every other respect , in looking around her , or penetrating forward , she saw more to distrust and to apprehend .  Mr. Churchill was better than could be expected ; and their first removal , on the departure of the funeral for Yorkshire , was to be to the house of a very old friend in Windsor , to whom Mr. Churchill had been promising a visit the last ten years .  In half a minute Charles was at the bottom of Union Street again , and the other two proceeding together : and soon words enough had passed between them to decide their direction towards the comparatively quiet and retired gravel walk , where the power of conversation would make the present hour a blessing indeed , and prepare it for all the immortality which the happiest recollections of their own future lives could bestow .  Mr Hayter had some property of his own , but it was insignificant compared with Mr Musgrove 's ; and while the Musgroves were in the first class of society in the country , the young Hayters would , from their parents ' inferior , retired , and unpolished way of living , and their own defective education , have been hardly in any class at all , but for their connexion with Uppercross , this eldest son of course excepted , who had chosen to be a scholar and a gentleman , and who was very superior in cultivation and manners to all the rest .  .  The agony of grief which overpowered them at first , was voluntarily renewed , was sought for , was created again and again .  Mr. Weston was chatty and convivial , and no friend to early separations of any sort ; but at last the drawing-room party did receive an augmentation .  I should not mind walking half the way .  I was sure it could not be far off ; but I had put my huswife upon it , you see , without being aware , and so it was quite hid , but I had it in my hand so very lately that I was almost sure it must be on the table .  The best they could do was to patch the gold nightingale up so that it could sing once a year ; even that was almost too much , and the tune was very shaky .  .  He had left them completely frightened ; and Harriet eagerly clinging to him , and hardly able to speak , had just strength enough to reach Hartfield , before her spirits were quite overcome .  So much the better .  The idea however started by her , was immediately pursued by Colonel Brandon , who was on every occasion mindful of the feelings of others ; and much was said on the subject of rain by both of them .  'Lord !  These difficulties , indeed , with a heart so alienated from Lucy , might not press very hard upon his patience ; but melancholy was the state of the person by whom the expectation of family opposition and unkindness , could be felt as a relief !  The minute he put in his paw , _snap_ ! -- the big Alligator who lives in the mud down there had it in his jaws .  The Banyan Tree looked down at them and spoke in a tired voice .  This friend , and Sir Walter , did not marry , whatever might have been anticipated on that head by their acquaintance .  Then one day a wolf did break into the fold and began killing the lambs .  CHAPTER XI  `` He has been here this very morning , on a most extraordinary errand .  It is not the fashion to say so , but I confess I admire her more than her sister . ''  Were it possible , she must say it must be Edward .  Were you often in the same society ? ''  You will find some friends here . ''  He thought principally of Mrs. Churchill 's illness , and wanted to know how she was treated ; and as for the ball , it was shocking to have dear Emma disappointed ; but they would all be safer at home .  She could do little more than listen patiently , soften every grievance , and excuse each to the other ; give them all hints of the forbearance necessary between such near neighbours , and make those hints broadest which were meant for her sister 's benefit .  how shall you employ yourself when you grow old ? ''  In the hope of diverting her father 's thoughts from the disagreeableness of Mr. Knightley 's going to London ; and going so suddenly ; and going on horseback , which she knew would be all very bad ; Emma communicated her news of Jane Fairfax , and her dependence on the effect was justified ; it supplied a very useful check , -- interested , without disturbing him .  `` Fanny is in her own room , I suppose , '' said he : -- '' I will go to her presently , for I am sure she will not have the least objection in the world to seeing YOU. -- Very far from it , indeed .  In the warmth of the moment , and under a mistaken impression , I might , perhaps , have endeavoured to interest you in some circumstances ; but not now .  Did you ever hear of that ? -- A water party ; and by some accident she was falling overboard .  The little leaves , no bigger than half your little-finger nail , grew in twos , -- two on each tiny stem ; they were almost round .  I have thought only of you .  The good was all to myself , by making you an object of the tenderest affection to me .  Miss Harriet Smith may not find offers of marriage flow in so fast , though she is a very pretty girl .  Charles gave it for Louisa , Mary for Henrietta , but quite agreeing that to have him marry either could be extremely delightful .  They are seen only as a nuisance , swept hastily off , and driven as much as possible from the sight . ''  their luxury and ease .  He brought all the music to her , and they looked it over together. -- Emma took the opportunity of whispering ,  It had no park , but the pleasure-grounds were tolerably extensive ; and like every other place of the same degree of importance , it had its open shrubbery , and closer wood walk , a road of smooth gravel winding round a plantation , led to the front , the lawn was dotted over with timber , the house itself was under the guardianship of the fir , the mountain-ash , and the acacia , and a thick screen of them altogether , interspersed with tall Lombardy poplars , shut out the offices .  But he did not ask for hope or encouragement .  She received no other answer , than an artificial , assenting smile , followed by a contemptuous glance , as he turned away , which Anne perfectly knew the meaning of .  But the chair would never do .  `` Oh !  `` What do you mean ? ''  Oh dear , no !  He has passed you very often . ''  It is so ridiculous ! ''  `` Yes -- what should hurt me ? -- I walk fast .  One half of the world can not understand the pleasures of the other . ''  `` But it rains . ''  Otter , '' said he , as Little Joe put his head out of water to see who had frightened him so .  In some surprise at the familiarity of this question , or at least of the manner in which it was spoken , Elinor replied that she was .  `` But would it not be a disgrace for me to harm an innocent creature ? ''  Such a beginning as this can not be followed by any thing. -- Do not let me be pained by hearing any thing more on the subject . ''  said the bad friend .  After a pause of several minutes , their silence was broken , by his asking her in a voice of some agitation , when he was to congratulate her on the acquisition of a brother ?  Then there would always be company for them .  This was too true for contradiction .  `` I do not understand what you mean by interrupting them , '' said Elinor ; `` you were all in the same room together , were not you ? ''  Here are pretty girls enough , I am sure .  `` The very thing for the King 's dinner ! ''  I assure you , Miss Anne , it prevents my wishing to see them at our house so often as I otherwise should .  She , poor soul , is tied by the leg .  Elton. -- She looked round for a moment ; he had joined Mr. Knightley at a little distance , and was arranging himself for settled conversation , while smiles of high glee passed between him and his wife .  She believed he was looking at her ; probably reflecting on what she had said , and trying to understand the manner .  But while she smiled at a graciousness so misapplied , she could not reflect on the mean-spirited folly from which it sprung , nor observe the studied attentions with which the Miss Steeles courted its continuance , without thoroughly despising them all four .  `` I do not know , '' said he , after a pause of expectation on her side , and thoughtfulness on his own , -- '' how YOU may have accounted for my behaviour to your sister , or what diabolical motive you may have imputed to me. -- Perhaps you will hardly think the better of me , -- it is worth the trial however , and you shall hear every thing .  Lord !  Mr. Weston directed the whole , officiating safely between Hartfield and the Vicarage , and every body was in good time .  the zeal of the business was gone by .  It was very beautiful , -- so beautiful that the prince exclaimed in surprise .  Chapter 19  So very early the next morning Little Joe Otter went to the best fishing pool he knew of in the Laughing Brook , and there he caught the biggest trout he could find .  Everything that revolts other people , low company , paltry rooms , foul air , disgusting associations are inviting to you .  I have already met with such success in two applications for pardon , that I may be in danger of thinking myself too sure of yours , and of those among your friends who have had any ground of offence. -- You must all endeavour to comprehend the exact nature of my situation when I first arrived at Randalls ; you must consider me as having a secret which was to be kept at all hazards .  had been a question of his .  `Well , ' said she , `it must be borne some time or other , and it may as well be now . '  The Miss Dashwoods had now been rather more than two months in town , and Marianne 's impatience to be gone increased every day .  Emma did not find herself equal to give the pleased assent , which no doubt he was in the habit of receiving , to emulate the `` Very true , my love , '' which must have been usually administered by his travelling companion ; but she had resolution enough to refrain from making any answer at all .  He delighted in being asked , but he would not tell .  He had found her agitated and low. -- Frank Churchill was a villain. -- He heard her declare that she had never loved him .  She was in gay spirits , and would have prolonged the conversation , wanting to hear the particulars of his suspicions , every look described , and all the wheres and hows of a circumstance which highly entertained her : but his gaiety did not meet hers .  One day he had carried his crust of bread to a retired spot in the palace woods , where he loved to be , when he saw a poor old woman hunting for roots , and seeming almost starved .  And right away everybody lost a great deal of the respect for Buster which they had felt .  I know what it is , for Mr Musgrove always attends the assizes , and I am so glad when they are over , and he is safe back again . ''  I could do very well without it .  I am sure of your kind support and aid . ''  `` What ? ''  Supported by the conviction of having done nothing to merit her present unhappiness , and consoled by the belief that Edward had done nothing to forfeit her esteem , she thought she could even now , under the first smart of the heavy blow , command herself enough to guard every suspicion of the truth from her mother and sisters .  You seem to have forgot all about Lyme . ''  Making-up indeed would not do .  `` Very well ; and if he had intended to give her one , he would have told her so . ''  It gave to his intentions whatever of decision was wanting before ; and he finally resolved , that it would be absolutely unnecessary , if not highly indecorous , to do more for the widow and children of his father , than such kind of neighbourly acts as his own wife pointed out .  She absolutely refused to allow me , which I then thought most unreasonable .  The girls were wild for dancing ; and the evenings ended , occasionally , in an unpremeditated little ball .  She had only to submit , sit down , be outwardly composed , and feel herself plunged at once in all the agitations which she had merely laid her account of tasting a little before the morning closed .  I want to play , too ! ''  Captain Wentworth was acknowledged again by each , by Elizabeth more graciously than before .  Perhaps they began to feel it might have been kinder and wiser to have resisted the temptation of any delay , and spared her from a taste of such enjoyments of ease and leisure as must now be relinquished .  Two or three more of the chosen only were to be admitted to join them , and it was to be done in a quiet , unpretending , elegant way , infinitely superior to the bustle and preparation , the regular eating and drinking , and picnic parade of the Eltons and the Sucklings .  If you value her conduct or happiness , infuse as much of your own spirit into her as you can .  `` I do not think it _is_ so very small .  As it is , without any addition of mine , they will each have about three thousand pounds on their mother 's death -- a very comfortable fortune for any young woman . ''  So here he is to go away and enjoy himself , and because I am the poor mother , I am not to be allowed to stir ; and yet , I am sure , I am more unfit than anybody else to be about the child .  I am afraid of her , as I have told you before , quite afraid of her , because she is so very clever ; but I respect her amazingly , and wish we had such a neighbour at Uppercross . ''  He described one Miss Elliot , and I thought very affectionately of the other . ''  I thought so at the time ; but you WOULD give him Cowper . ''  `` There can be no doubt of your being much more engaged with company than you used to be .  `` What ! ''  The king was sad to hear this , but he rejoiced in the friendship of the fairy for his son .  The remainder of Anne 's time at Uppercross , comprehending only two days , was spent entirely at the Mansion House ; and she had the satisfaction of knowing herself extremely useful there , both as an immediate companion , and as assisting in all those arrangements for the future , which , in Mr and Mrs Musgrove 's distressed state of spirits , would have been difficulties .  As Mr Shepherd perceived that this connexion of the Crofts did them no service with Sir Walter , he mentioned it no more ; returning , with all his zeal , to dwell on the circumstances more indisputably in their favour ; their age , and number , and fortune ; the high idea they had formed of Kellynch Hall , and extreme solicitude for the advantage of renting it ; making it appear as if they ranked nothing beyond the happiness of being the tenants of Sir Walter Elliot : an extraordinary taste , certainly , could they have been supposed in the secret of Sir Walter 's estimate of the dues of a tenant .  He was warm in his reprobation of Mr. Elton 's conduct ; it had been unpardonable rudeness ; and Mrs. Elton 's looks also received the due share of censure .  `` No , not Mr. Knightley ; he declined it from the first ; and though I thought he would come , because Mrs. Elton declared she would not let him off , he did not ; -- but my mother , and Jane , and I , were all there , and a very agreeable evening we had .  Sir Walter talked of his youngest daughter ; `` Mr Elliot must give him leave to present him to his youngest daughter '' ( there was no occasion for remembering Mary ) ; and Anne , smiling and blushing , very becomingly shewed to Mr Elliot the pretty features which he had by no means forgotten , and instantly saw , with amusement at his little start of surprise , that he had not been at all aware of who she was .  THE DIAMOND AND THE DEWDROP A costly Diamond , that had once sparkled in a lady 's ring , lay in a field amid tall grasses and oxeye daisies .  And Mr. Weston tried , in vain , to make them harmonise better .  He rushed this way and that way !  And here , instead of its being a matter of condolence , it turns out to be one of congratulation. -- I congratulate you , Mr. Weston , with all my heart , on the prospect of having one of the most lovely and accomplished young women in England for your daughter . ''  How I do wish I knew what you were at !  `` Yes . ''  From the morn to the evening he stays ; He shall follow his sheep all the day , And his tongue shall be filled with praise .  and unfortunately '' ( speaking low and tremulously ) `` there are so many who forget to think seriously till it is almost too late . ''  He went to the king then , and desired him to send him out his wife and his money , saying that he would throw down the court again if he did not do so immediately .  But Jack Rollaround only behaved the worse : `` Get out of the way , old Moon ! ''  I am sure they will bring him soon . ''  He was immediately qualifying himself to form an opinion , by giving her very proper attention , after the introduction had passed .  The baronet , nevertheless , is not unlikely to marry again ; he is quite fool enough .  All that remained to be done was to be speedy ; and , therefore staying only till she could leave Mrs. Jennings 's maid with her sister , she hurried down stairs .  One does not , you know , after a time .  `` Piper , pipe that song again ; '' So I piped : he wept to hear .  she said .  Blacky waited until he was sure that no one else was coming .  Ah !  But I did not love only him ; -- and while the comfort of others was dear to me , I was glad to spare them from knowing how much I felt .  but he hoped he should in time . ''  What do you think they saw ?  No misfortune occurred , again to prevent the ball .  There is so little real friendship in the world !  Kitty , a fair but frozen maid , Kindled a flame I yet deplore , The hood-wink 'd boy I called to aid , Though of his near approach afraid , So fatal to my suit before .  Oh !  `` Wise beast , '' said his rider : `` 'haste makes waste , ' and all things are better in moderation .  However , I think it answered so far as to tempt one to go again .  A very little trouble on your side secures him .  Knightley. -- Every other part of her mind was disgusting .  Then a terrible thing happened .  `` No , nothing at all . ''  Elinor started at this declaration , and was sorry for the warmth she had been betrayed into , in speaking of him .  is this just ?  She thought it was perfectly lovely .  And such a noble fire ! -- I am quite roasted .  `` Nay , how could I help saying what I did ? -- Nobody could have helped it .  `` My love you contradict every body , '' said his wife with her usual laugh .  It was no insignificant barrier , indeed .  So , when Farmer Brown 's boy started for the barn instead of for the Green Forest , Blacky did n't know what to make of it .  He might be able to join them in the evening , but certainly not to dinner .  If in the supposition of his seeking to marry herself , his difficulties from his mother had seemed great , how much greater were they now likely to be , when the object of his engagement was undoubtedly inferior in connections , and probably inferior in fortune to herself .  She went -- she had driven once unsuccessfully to the door , but had not been into the house since the morning after Box Hill , when poor Jane had been in such distress as had filled her with compassion , though all the worst of her sufferings had been unsuspected. -- The fear of being still unwelcome , determined her , though assured of their being at home , to wait in the passage , and send up her name. -- She heard Patty announcing it ; but no such bustle succeeded as poor Miss Bates had before made so happily intelligible. -- No ; she heard nothing but the instant reply of , `` Beg her to walk up ; '' -- and a moment afterwards she was met on the stairs by Jane herself , coming eagerly forward , as if no other reception of her were felt sufficient. -- Emma had never seen her look so well , so lovely , so engaging .  CHAPTER X  A small house in their own neighbourhood , where they might still have Lady Russell 's society , still be near Mary , and still have the pleasure of sometimes seeing the lawns and groves of Kellynch , was the object of her ambition .  Elinor said no more , and John was also for a short time silent. -- His reflections ended thus .  was Margery 's last thought as she went off to dreamland .  `` No , '' said another , `` the horse is really not so successful ; the turn of the neck , there , is awkward . ''  `` Oh !  With this treatment , Mr. Woodhouse was soon composed enough for talking as usual .  `` Good heavens , Charles !  She began by inquiring if they saw much of Mr. Willoughby at Cleveland , and whether they were intimately acquainted with him .  Lady Middleton looked as if she thanked heaven that SHE had never made so rude a speech .  Jane says that Colonel Campbell is a little deaf .  would I be turned back from doing a thing that I had determined to do , and that I knew to be right , by the airs and interference of such a person , or of any person I may say ?  Many were the tears shed by them in their last adieus to a place so much beloved .  May I hope for the honour of your hand for the two first dances of this little projected ball , to be given , not at Randalls , but at the Crown Inn ? ''  * * * * * And , do you know , children , nobody knows what happened next !  Why should the mistress of the vales of Har , utter a sigh .  But if I dared tell you all , you would not be so much surprised .  Neither Lady Middleton nor Mrs. Jennings could supply to her the conversation she missed ; although the latter was an everlasting talker , and from the first had regarded her with a kindness which ensured her a large share of her discourse .  Emma was obliged to fancy what she liked -- but she could never believe that in the same situation _she_ should not have discovered the truth .  `` Why should you imagine , Elinor , that we did not go there , or that we did not see the house ?  But Mrs. Dashwood began shortly to give over every hope of the kind , and to be convinced , from the general drift of his discourse , that his assistance extended no farther than their maintenance for six months at Norland .  `` Not I , '' said the Duck .  They were both so truly respectable in their happiness , so disinterested in every sensation ; thought so much of Jane ; so much of every body , and so little of themselves , that every kindly feeling was at work for them .  `` Ah ! -- no , -- have you forgot what passed in town ? -- That infamous letter -- Did she shew it you ? ''  The Water came over the little Half-Chick 's feathers , over his head , into his eyes .  I have always wanted some other motive for his conduct than appeared .  How the long stage would pass ; how it was to affect their manners ; what was to be their sort of intercourse , she could not foresee .  brought him out of the straight line to stand near her , and make enquiries in return , in spite of the formidable father and sister in the back ground .  What dreadful weather we have had !  her father and mother ! ''  She had once partly promised Mrs Smith to spend the evening with her ; but in a short hurried call she excused herself and put it off , with the more decided promise of a longer visit on the morrow .  she was as grateful as possible , you may be sure .  But so it is , and because of its humility it was chosen to bear Christmas gifts to the children .  It was a little fever of admiration ; but it might , probably must , end in love with some .  They would have made it sing the tune thirty-four times , but the Emperor said , `` I should like to hear the real Nightingale sing , now . ''  I believe you did not hear me telling the others in the drawing-room that we are expecting Frank .  Here is complete proof . ''  `` Where are you going ? ''  In the warmth of true contrition , she would call upon her the very next morning , and it should be the beginning , on her side , of a regular , equal , kindly intercourse .  They will be so very happy to see you . ''  Elton . ''  Colonel Brandon , who was here only ten minutes ago , has desired me to say , that understanding you mean to take orders , he has great pleasure in offering you the living of Delaford now just vacant , and only wishes it were more valuable .  the Beetle ventured to interpose , though with a very timid air .  Thy servant slew both the lion and the bear ; and this Philistine shall be as one of them , for he hath defied the armies of the living God .  I am doatingly fond of music -- passionately fond ; -- and my friends say I am not entirely devoid of taste ; but as to any thing else , upon my honour my performance is _mediocre_ to the last degree .  Edward assured them himself of his being in town , within a very short time , by twice calling in Berkeley Street .  `` Harriet ! ''  Elinor 's uneasiness was at least equal to her mother 's .  And there , as they slowly paced the gradual ascent , heedless of every group around them , seeing neither sauntering politicians , bustling housekeepers , flirting girls , nor nursery-maids and children , they could indulge in those retrospections and acknowledgements , and especially in those explanations of what had directly preceded the present moment , which were so poignant and so ceaseless in interest .  All this spoken extremely fast obliged Miss Bates to stop for breath ; and Emma said something very civil about the excellence of Miss Fairfax 's handwriting .  Have you not received my letters ?  `` A man who has nothing to do with his own time has no conscience in his intrusion on that of others . ''  Knightley ! -- How she could dare to fancy herself the chosen of such a man till actually assured of it ! -- But Harriet was less humble , had fewer scruples than formerly. -- Her inferiority , whether of mind or situation , seemed little felt. -- She had seemed more sensible of Mr. Elton 's being to stoop in marrying her , than she now seemed of Mr .  But you are so strong and so obliging , that I venture to trust you will help me out . ''  But with all the hopes of cheerfulness , and all the present comfort of delay , there was still such an evil hanging over her in the hour of explanation with Harriet , as made it impossible for Emma to be ever perfectly at ease .  `` Can you , ma'am ? ''  On the Big Rock in the Smiling Pool sat Little Joe Otter , Billy Mink , and Jerry Muskrat .  For my part , I think the less that is said about such things , the better , the sooner 't is blown over and forgot .  She could scarcely imagine a more cheerless situation in itself than Mrs Smith 's .  `` I can listen no longer in silence .  She recovered her voice .  How can you be so unjust ?  Came there about the year -- -5 , I take it .  `` Aye , my dear , that I do , indeed .  `` That is the case with us all , papa .  `` You surprize me !  `` Every day , for forty days , he has come forth , so , and challenged us to send a man against him , in single combat ; and since no one dares to go out against him alone , the armies can not fight . ''  That was the act of a very , very young man , one too young to consider whether the inconvenience of it might not very much exceed the pleasure .  Tap !  She had wandered long , Hearing wild birds ' song .  Indeed , Miss Woodhouse , ( speaking more collectedly , ) with the consciousness which I have of misconduct , very great misconduct , it is particularly consoling to me to know that those of my friends , whose good opinion is most worth preserving , are not disgusted to such a degree as to -- I have not time for half that I could wish to say .  The little people of the Green Forest , the Green Meadows , and the Smiling Pool are so used to hearing Sammy cry thief that usually they think very little about it .  A lady always does. -- She said enough to shew there need not be despair -- and to invite him to say more himself .  In the evening , as Marianne was discovered to be musical , she was invited to play .  `` I do not attempt to deny , '' said she , `` that I think very highly of him -- that I greatly esteem , that I like him . ''  Within half an hour it was known all over Highbury .  But when they discovered that Buster Bear was a fisherman , they made up their minds that something had got to be done .  It was a gentleman , it was Colonel Brandon himself .  Once more he cut out the shoes and left them on the bench .  As soon as they were out of danger the City Mouse said , `` That was the old Cat ; she is the best mouser in town , -- if she once gets you , you are lost . ''  That Marianne , fastidious as she was , thoroughly acquainted with Mrs. Jennings ' manners , and invariably disgusted by them , should overlook every inconvenience of that kind , should disregard whatever must be most wounding to her irritable feelings , in her pursuit of one object , was such a proof , so strong , so full , of the importance of that object to her , as Elinor , in spite of all that had passed , was not prepared to witness .  `` Here , '' said he , `` ended the worst of my state ; for now I could at least put myself in the way of happiness ; I could exert myself ; I could do something .  All this ran so glibly through her thoughts , that by the time her father had arranged himself , after the bustle of the Eltons ' departure , and was ready to speak , she was very tolerably capable of attending .  Nothing of the sort had ever occurred before to any young ladies in the place , within her memory ; no rencontre , no alarm of the kind ; -- and now it had happened to the very person , and at the very hour , when the other very person was chancing to pass by to rescue her ! -- It certainly was very extraordinary ! -- And knowing , as she did , the favourable state of mind of each at this period , it struck her the more .  The contempt which she had , very early in their acquaintance , felt for her daughter-in-law , was very much increased by the farther knowledge of her character , which half a year 's residence in her family afforded ; and perhaps in spite of every consideration of politeness or maternal affection on the side of the former , the two ladies might have found it impossible to have lived together so long , had not a particular circumstance occurred to give still greater eligibility , according to the opinions of Mrs. Dashwood , to her daughters ' continuance at Norland .  But you have not explained to me the particular reason of your coming now , nor how you heard of her illness . ''  `` Oh , yes , I dare say you will . ''  Yes , quite a proposal of marriage ; and a very good letter , at least she thought so .  You are quite mistaken .  As these considerations occurred to her in painful succession , she wept for him , more than for herself .  `` No , I do not think we shall . ''  It is not likely that I should now see or hear any thing to change them . ''  An opportunity was soon to be given to the Dashwoods of debating on the rest of the children , as Sir John would not leave the house without securing their promise of dining at the park the next day .  Do you think it is a good one ?  `` She is only grown a little more grave than she was . ''  `` Marianne is not well , '' said she .  `` I have reason to think , '' he replied , `` that Harriet Smith will soon have an offer of marriage , and from a most unexceptionable quarter : -- Robert Martin is the man .  You will stay , and go with us ? ''  Anne could not immediately fall into a quotation again .  And that is just what he did do .  We can ask your sisters some other year , you know ; but the Miss Steeles may not be in town any more .  no , now I recollect , now I have it ; something happened before tea , but not that .  We live at home , quiet , confined , and our feelings prey upon us .  It determined him to leave Lyme , and await her complete recovery elsewhere .  She was quick in feeling the little injuries to Isabella , which Isabella never felt herself .  It is a certainty .  `` I know it all , I know it all , '' cried Mrs Smith .  she is dead ! ''  * * * * * There sprang from the sons of Odin a race of men who became mighty kings of the earth , and one of these , named Frode , ruled over the lands that are called Denmark .  Last night after tea , when you and mama went out of the room , they were whispering and talking together as fast as could be , and he seemed to be begging something of her , and presently he took up her scissors and cut off a long lock of her hair , for it was all tumbled down her back ; and he kissed it , and folded it up in a piece of white paper ; and put it into his pocket-book . ''  We shall only be making each other more angry .  `` I do not understand you , '' replied he , colouring .  At the splash the Frogs were terribly frightened , and dived into their holes to hide from King Log .  He wanted more than anything else to find her , and stay near her , so he flew out into the world , to seek her .  `` Mr. Willoughby however is the only person who can have a right to shew that house ; and as he went in an open carriage , it was impossible to have any other companion .  Is it impossible to- ?  Mrs. Palmer was several years younger than Lady Middleton , and totally unlike her in every respect .  I am perfectly comfortable to-day . ''  She was to convey Harriet , and they drove to the Crown in good time , the Randalls party just sufficiently before them .  For her own sake she could not be rude ; and for Harriet 's , in the hope that all would yet turn out right , she was even positively civil ; but it was an effort ; especially as something was going on amongst the others , in the most overpowering period of Mr. Elton 's nonsense , which she particularly wished to listen to .  Good gracious !  a great pity indeed !  said she , `` I get quite anxious about you .  `` Well , '' said Mrs. Elton , laughing , `` we shall see . ''  Early in the morning he said to his old mother , `` Have the kettle boiling when I come home to-night , for I 'll be bringing the little Red Hen for supper . ''  Next day Epaminondas went to see his Auntie , and she gave him a pound of butter for his Mammy ; fine , fresh , sweet butter .  It was folly to be disturbed by it .  But you really do admit the justice of what I have said in his defence ? -- I am happy -- and he is acquitted . ''  I am sure I had not .  He did not omit being sometimes directly before Miss Smith , or speaking to those who were close to her. -- Emma saw it .  She inherits her mother 's talents , and must have been under subjection to her . ''  Preparation ! -- day ! -- In honest words , her money was necessary to me , and in a situation like mine , any thing was to be done to prevent a rupture .  Perhaps she ought to be ashamed , but Mr. Weston had been almost as uneasy as herself. -- In ten minutes , however , the child had been perfectly well again .  `` Yes , I have no doubt of her being extremely attached to him . ''  She was not much deceived as to her own skill either as an artist or a musician , but she was not unwilling to have others deceived , or sorry to know her reputation for accomplishment often higher than it deserved .  `` Indeed I am perfectly convinced of your regard for me , and next to Edward 's love , it is the greatest comfort I have. -- Poor Edward ! -- But now there is one good thing , we shall be able to meet , and meet pretty often , for Lady Middleton 's delighted with Mrs. Dashwood , so we shall be a good deal in Harley Street , I dare say , and Edward spends half his time with his sister -- besides , Lady Middleton and Mrs. Ferrars will visit now ; -- and Mrs. Ferrars and your sister were both so good to say more than once , they should always be glad to see me. -- They are such charming women ! -- I am sure if ever you tell your sister what I think of her , you can not speak too high . ''  I have good reason to think -- indeed I have it from the best authority , or I should not repeat it , for otherwise it would be very wrong to say any thing about it -- but I have it from the very best authority -- not that I ever precisely heard Mrs. Ferrars say it herself -- but her daughter DID , and I have it from her -- That in short , whatever objections there might be against a certain -- a certain connection -- you understand me -- it would have been far preferable to her , it would not have given her half the vexation that THIS does .  [ Illustration ] After the ploughing and harrowing , the man drove off , and Margery's father said that he himself would do the rest of the work in the late afternoons , when he came home from business ; they could not afford too much help , he said , and he had learned to take care of a garden when he was a boy .  She could do justice to the superiority of Lady Russell 's motives in this , over those of her father and Elizabeth ; she could honour all the better feelings of her calmness ; but the general air of oblivion among them was highly important from whatever it sprung ; and in the event of Admiral Croft 's really taking Kellynch Hall , she rejoiced anew over the conviction which had always been most grateful to her , of the past being known to those three only among her connexions , by whom no syllable , she believed , would ever be whispered , and in the trust that among his , the brother only with whom he had been residing , had received any information of their short-lived engagement .  Everything now marked out Louisa for Captain Wentworth ; nothing could be plainer ; and where many divisions were necessary , or even where they were not , they walked side by side nearly as much as the other two .  On Elinor its effect was very different .  She was a fine woman , had had a decent education , was brought forward by some cousins , thrown by chance into Mr Elliot 's company , and fell in love with him ; and not a difficulty or a scruple was there on his side , with respect to her birth .  The word was discovered , and with a faint smile pushed away .  It would be most right , and most wise , and , therefore must involve least suffering to go with the others .  You told me to observe him carefully , and let his behaviour be the rule of mine -- and so I have .  In this situation , Elinor , roused from sleep by her agitation and sobs , first perceived her ; and after observing her for a few moments with silent anxiety , said , in a tone of the most considerate gentleness ,  She touched -- she admitted -- she acknowledged the whole truth .  he replied impressively , `` there is nothing worth my staying for ; '' and he was gone directly .  And what possible claim could the Miss Dashwoods , who were related to him only by half blood , which she considered as no relationship at all , have on his generosity to so large an amount .  `` No ; but she might suppose that something would occur in your favour ; that your own family might in time relent .  Oh !  Her cheeks flushed at the name , and she felt afraid of something , though she knew not what .  A ray from them fell on the lazy man 's beast , and he saw what he was riding : it was a gigantic snail !  Only my pattern gown is at Hartfield .  She was warmly gratified -- and in another moment still more so , by a little movement of more than common friendliness on his part. -- He took her hand ; -- whether she had not herself made the first motion , she could not say -- she might , perhaps , have rather offered it -- but he took her hand , pressed it , and certainly was on the point of carrying it to his lips -- when , from some fancy or other , he suddenly let it go. -- Why he should feel such a scruple , why he should change his mind when it was all but done , she could not perceive. -- He would have judged better , she thought , if he had not stopped. -- The intention , however , was indubitable ; and whether it was that his manners had in general so little gallantry , or however else it happened , but she thought nothing became him more. -- It was with him , of so simple , yet so dignified a nature. -- She could not but recall the attempt with great satisfaction .  You need not tell me that you had a pleasant evening .  I hope he may long continue to feel all the value of such a reconciliation. -- He is a very liberal thanker , with his thousands and tens of thousands. -- `Happier than I deserve . '  `` That sweet , amiable Jane Fairfax ! ''  `` I can not agree with you , papa ; you know I can not .  Some one must resolve on being off for Uppercross instantly .  Ever since I left you this morning , Emma , my mind has been hard at work on one subject . ''  `` Well , '' said Emma , `` I suppose we shall gradually grow reconciled to the idea , and I wish them very happy .  Otter !  It was all right , all open , all equal .  Just as soon as he caught sight of Buster Bear running for the Green Forest as hard as ever he could , he understood what had excited Sammy so .  Hitherto she had carefully avoided every companion in her rambles .  And after such success , you know ! -- Every body said that Mr. Weston would never marry again .  What shall I say ? ''  And that is how the sea became salt .  said his Mammy .  A variety of occupations , of objects , and of company , which could not be procured at Barton , would be inevitable there , and might yet , she hoped , cheat Marianne , at times , into some interest beyond herself , and even into some amusement , much as the ideas of both might now be spurned by her .  He was invited to contribute any really good enigmas , charades , or conundrums that he might recollect ; and she had the pleasure of seeing him most intently at work with his recollections ; and at the same time , as she could perceive , most earnestly careful that nothing ungallant , nothing that did not breathe a compliment to the sex should pass his lips .  `` I 'll teach you to play cow ! ''  They praised the morning ; gloried in the sea ; sympathized in the delight of the fresh-feeling breeze -- and were silent ; till Henrietta suddenly began again with --  I wish he may be induced to call here .  They had been a year or two waiting for fortune and promotion .  The advantages of Bath to the young are pretty generally understood .  There he is . ''  he is off .  Mr. Frank Churchill did not come .  After a short silence which succeeded the first surprise and enquiries of meeting , Marianne asked Edward if he came directly from London .  Elinor , dreading her being tired , led her towards home ; and till they reached the door of the cottage , easily conjecturing what her curiosity must be though no question was suffered to speak it , talked of nothing but Willoughby , and their conversation together ; and was carefully minute in every particular of speech and look , where minuteness could be safely indulged .  Elinor , for her sister 's sake , could not press the subject farther , and she hoped it was not required of her for Willoughby 's ; since , though Marianne might lose much , he could gain very little by the enforcement of the real truth .  To give you another instance of her liberality : -- The other day , as soon as we came to town , aware that money could not be very plenty with us just now , she put bank-notes into Fanny 's hands to the amount of two hundred pounds .  Not that she _wanted_ him to marry .  A very restless and feverish night , however , disappointed the expectation of both ; and when Marianne , after persisting in rising , confessed herself unable to sit up , and returned voluntarily to her bed , Elinor was very ready to adopt Mrs. Jennings 's advice , of sending for the Palmers ' apothecary .  A speedy cure must not be hoped , but everything was going on as well as the nature of the case admitted .  You know very well that my opinion would have no weight with you , unless it were on the side of your wishes . ''  Mr. Palmer looked up on her entering the room , stared at her some minutes , and then returned to his newspaper .  You were all gone I do not know where .  They then proceeded a few paces in silence .  how fond he was of it !  Then , lowering her voice a little , she said to Elinor , `` She is his natural daughter . ''  Then he put down his pail and began a hurried look here , there , and everywhere .  They had all come at his invitation to listen to a plan for seeing for themselves if it were really true that Farmer Brown 's boy was afraid of Buster Bear .  `` And what a charming little family they have !  I do not know what he would be at .  These were words which could not but dwell with her .  he wailed , `` any kind of a beast that will take me to the castle ! ''  `` The navy , I think , who have done so much for us , have at least an equal claim with any other set of men , for all the comforts and all the privileges which any home can give .  cried Marianne with sparkling eyes , `` and with elegance , with spirit ? ''  I do not know what you and Mr. Willoughby will do between you about her .  `` Miss Dashwood , '' cried Willoughby , `` you are now using me unkindly .  `` Certainly .  That would not have had to be done if the land had been ploughed in the autumn ; the grass would have rotted in the ground , and would have made food for the plants .  `` Nay , my dear , I 'm sure I do n't pretend to say that there a n't .  `` Yes , yes , THAT in particular .  `` Then every plant looks like this at first ? ''  The only wonder was , what they could be waiting for , till the business at Lyme came ; then , indeed , it was clear enough that they must wait till her brain was set to right .  It was so with Elizabeth , still the same handsome Miss Elliot that she had begun to be thirteen years ago , and Sir Walter might be excused , therefore , in forgetting her age , or , at least , be deemed only half a fool , for thinking himself and Elizabeth as blooming as ever , amidst the wreck of the good looks of everybody else ; for he could plainly see how old all the rest of his family and acquaintance were growing .  The Admiral wound it up summarily by exclaiming --  Mary deplored the necessity for herself .  He does not think of the draught .  Your very presence is distasteful to me .  As soon as they returned to the carriage , Mrs. Jennings was eager for information ; but as Elinor wished to spread as little as possible intelligence that had in the first place been so unfairly obtained , she confined herself to the brief repetition of such simple particulars , as she felt assured that Lucy , for the sake of her own consequence , would choose to have known .  The evening is closing in , and grandmama will be looking for us .  Something must be done for them whenever they leave Norland and settle in a new home . ''  I never met with a disposition more truly amiable . ''  `` It may be so ; but Willoughby is capable -- at least I think '' -- he stopped a moment ; then added in a voice which seemed to distrust itself , `` And your sister -- how did she -- ''  `` What does it mean ? ''  Mr. Weston 's sanguine temper was a blessing on all his upright and honourable exertions ; but Mr. Weston earned every present comfort before he endeavoured to gain it. -- Very true ; he did not come till Miss Fairfax was here . ''  He reached out a big paw and pushed it gently .  Two dances , unfortunately , were all that could be allowed .  My being the mother is the very reason why my feelings should not be tried .  `` What ! ''  She was not a woman of many words ; for , unlike people in general , she proportioned them to the number of her ideas ; and of the few syllables that did escape her , not one fell to the share of Miss Dashwood , whom she eyed with the spirited determination of disliking her at all events .  Then Thel astonish 'd view 'd the Worm upon its dewy bed .  she was not so easily to be talked out of it .  You can not be ignorant , Mrs. Elton , of my connexion with the family , nor of the treatment I have met with ; and , between ourselves , the whole blame of it is to be laid to her .  Emma saw Mrs. Weston 's surprize , and felt that it must be great , at an address which , in words and manner , was assuming to himself the right of first interest in her ; and as for herself , she was too much provoked and offended to have the power of directly saying any thing to the purpose .  Here Marianne , in an ecstasy of indignation , clapped her hands together , and cried , `` Gracious God !  The consequence was , that Elinor set out by herself to pay a visit , for which no one could really have less inclination , and to run the risk of a tete-a-tete with a woman , whom neither of the others had so much reason to dislike .  The Elephant was jerked off his feet , and came slipping and sliding to the beach , and into the surf .  Willoughby , what is the meaning of this ?  The possibility of a relapse would of course , in some moments , occur to remind her of what anxiety was -- but when she saw , on her frequent and minute examination , that every symptom of recovery continued , and saw Marianne at six o'clock sink into a quiet , steady , and to all appearance comfortable , sleep , she silenced every doubt .  But while he was asking them the questions his father had commanded , there arose a great shouting and tumult among the Israelites , and men came running back from the front line of battle ; everything became confusion .  As she said the words , a great grey man stood before her ; he was wrapped in a strange grey cloak that covered him from head to foot ; and he smiled at Elsa .  Their respectability was as dear to her as her own , and a daily intercourse had become precious by habit .  He said , -- `` When I do n't see any little crabs on the shore , or sticking up out of the water , I usually see them blowing bubbles from under the water ; the little bubbles go _puff , puff , puff_ , and then they go _pop , pop , pop_ , and they show me where the little juicy crabs are , so I can put my paw in and catch them .  E. is Knightley 's right hand . ''  I have often known it done myself . ''  Captain Benwick obeyed , and Charles at the same moment , disengaging himself from his wife , they were both with him ; and Louisa was raised up and supported more firmly between them , and everything was done that Anne had prompted , but in vain ; while Captain Wentworth , staggering against the wall for his support , exclaimed in the bitterest agony --  `` I am sorry to say that I am very far from well ; and Jemima has just told me that the butcher says there is a bad sore-throat very much about .  Thief ! ''  Sophy can not bear them .  This is treating me like a friend .  He had always been lucky ; he knew he should be so still .  It was natural for him to feel that he had _cause_ to sigh .  A sick chamber may often furnish the worth of volumes . ''  I sent no answer to Marianne , intending by that to preserve myself from her farther notice ; and for some time I was even determined not to call in Berkeley Street ; -- but at last , judging it wiser to affect the air of a cool , common acquaintance than anything else , I watched you all safely out of the house one morning , and left my name . ''  Mrs Harville says her husband feels a good deal on his poor sister 's account ; but , however , Louisa is a great favourite with both .  Be it known then , that Sir Walter , like a good father , ( having met with one or two private disappointments in very unreasonable applications ) , prided himself on remaining single for his dear daughters ' sake .  I have done very little besides sending away some of the large looking-glasses from my dressing-room , which was your father 's .  The constant attention of Mr. and Mrs. Henry Dashwood to his wishes , which proceeded not merely from interest , but from goodness of heart , gave him every degree of solid comfort which his age could receive ; and the cheerfulness of the children added a relish to his existence .  There she had listened to Henrietta 's schemes for Dr Shirley 's leaving Uppercross ; farther on , she had first seen Mr Elliot ; a moment seemed all that could now be given to any one but Louisa , or those who were wrapt up in her welfare .  my dear , you are very modest .  Frank Churchill sang again .  She had soon fixed on the size and sort of portrait .  Still , however , affection was glad to catch at any reasonable excuse for not hurrying on the wretched moment .  For thirteen years had she been doing the honours , and laying down the domestic law at home , and leading the way to the chaise and four , and walking immediately after Lady Russell out of all the drawing-rooms and dining-rooms in the country .  but , Charles , tell Captain Wentworth , he need not be afraid of mentioning poor Dick before me , for it would be rather a pleasure to hear him talked of by such a good friend . ''  It was agitation , pain , pleasure , a something between delight and misery .  Elsa sat and looked with wonder at her little white hands and the ten useless fingers .  And where do you think he was , in the Old Pasture ?  He sat down with them , and improved their conversation very much .  Would she recollect him ?  Seven years would be insufficient to make some people acquainted with each other , and seven days are more than enough for others .  said the prince in surprise .  A few minutes made Emma acquainted with the whole .  Elinor was pleased that he had called ; and still more pleased that she had missed him .  When the distressing communication at Uppercross was over , and he had seen the father and mother quite as composed as could be hoped , and the daughter all the better for being with them , he announced his intention of returning in the same carriage to Lyme ; and when the horses were baited , he was off .  When he was here before , we made the best of it ; but there was a good deal of wet , damp , cheerless weather ; there always is in February , you know , and we could not do half that we intended .  `` Sweet sleep , come to me Underneath this tree ; Do father , mother , weep ?  Mrs. Dashwood felt too much for speech , and instantly quitted the parlour to give way in solitude to the concern and alarm which this sudden departure occasioned .  Mrs. Goddard , what say you to _half_ a glass of wine ?  `` I believe you are right , '' he replied , `` and yet I have always set her down as a lively girl . ''  Never had he screamed so loud , and never had his voice sounded so excited .  my mother 's spectacles .  And this Dagda had a wonderful magic harp .  the little Jackal said .  It was now the middle of June , and the weather fine ; and Mrs. Elton was growing impatient to name the day , and settle with Mr. Weston as to pigeon-pies and cold lamb , when a lame carriage-horse threw every thing into sad uncertainty .  There was a little hesitation in Emma 's answer .  In general she has been in very good health and very good looks since Michaelmas . ''  He ran just as Peter Rabbit runs when he has got to reach the dear Old Briar-patch before Reddy Fox can catch him , which , you know , is as fast as he can run .  So Emma thought , at least .  There was no bearing such an `` always ; '' and to break through her dreadful gratitude , Emma made the direct inquiry of --  Let me not suppose that she dares go about , Emma Woodhouse-ing me ! -- But upon my honour , there seems no limits to the licentiousness of that woman 's tongue ! ''  Such personal praise might have struck her , especially as it did not appear to Anne that the freckles were at all lessened .  `` About Jane Fairfax .  They were a family of the name of Martin , whom Emma well knew by character , as renting a large farm of Mr. Knightley , and residing in the parish of Donwell -- very creditably , she believed -- she knew Mr. Knightley thought highly of them -- but they must be coarse and unpolished , and very unfit to be the intimates of a girl who wanted only a little more knowledge and elegance to be quite perfect .  You have made yourself too clear .  Once more the Dagda touched his harp , but very , very softly .  Then the little grey Nightingale filled her throat full , and sang .  While they were arguing they saw a traveller walking along the country highway , wearing a great cloak .  Miss Steele was the least discomposed of the three , by their presence ; and it was in their power to reconcile her to it entirely .  `` And what , '' said Mrs. Dashwood , `` is my dear prudent Elinor going to suggest ?  Then he and his wife hid away as before , to watch .  `` Had he been only in a violent fever , you would not have despised him half so much .  `` She had seemed to recommend and praise him ! ''  He just _had_ to know what it was all about .  And she is a good-natured woman after all .  `` It needs 'scrambling , ' '' laughed her father .  Uppercross excited no interest , Kellynch very little : it was all Bath .  and resolved , that his mourning should be as handsome as possible ; and his wife sat sighing and moralising over her broad hems with a commiseration and good sense , true and steady .  Emma was soon perfectly satisfied of Mr. Martin 's being no otherwise remembered , than as he furnished a contrast with Mr. Elton , of the utmost advantage to the latter .  They seemed to be within half a sentence of Harriet , and her immediate feeling was to avert the subject , if possible .  It is a great deal more natural than one could wish , that a young man , brought up by those who are proud , luxurious , and selfish , should be proud , luxurious , and selfish too .  That is one reason that he is so often impudent and saucy .  Mrs. Jennings , however , assured him directly , that she should not stand upon ceremony , for they were all cousins , or something like it , and she should certainly wait on Mrs. John Dashwood very soon , and bring her sisters to see her .  But `` no , she would go down ; she could bear it very well , and the bustle about her would be less . ''  There was a strange rumour in Highbury of all the little Perrys being seen with a slice of Mrs. Weston 's wedding-cake in their hands : but Mr. Woodhouse would never believe it .  Let no name ever pass our lips .  Epaminondas put it in some leaves and took it down to the brook ; and there he cooled it in the water , and cooled it in the water , and cooled it in the water ; then he took it in his hands and came along home .  Very true .  He never tells me any thing !  She thought it in reality a sad exchange for herself , to have him with his grave looks and reluctant conversation opposed to her instead of his brother .  That he did not regard it as a desperate case , that he did not say a few hours must end it , was at first felt , beyond the hope of most ; and the ecstasy of such a reprieve , the rejoicing , deep and silent , after a few fervent ejaculations of gratitude to Heaven had been offered , may be conceived .  Every night , when I go to carry scraps from the kitchen to my mother , who lives in the wood beyond the forest , I hear the Nightingale sing . ''  `` You ca n't catch me , I 'm the Gingerbread Man ! ''  Emma could imagine she saw a touch of the arm at this speech , from his wife .  The holidays , however , are over at last : I believe no children ever had such long ones .  This peace will be turning all our rich naval officers ashore .  you saw enough for your own amusement .  And those who were swift of foot , ran .  -- said she in a voice of great compassion to Marianne , who turned away her face without attempting to answer .  Miss Bates was out , which accounted for the previous tranquillity .  `` Yes .  I was very much pleased with all that he said .  The gruel came and supplied a great deal to be said -- much praise and many comments -- undoubting decision of its wholesomeness for every constitution , and pretty severe Philippics upon the many houses where it was never met with tolerable ; -- but , unfortunately , among the failures which the daughter had to instance , the most recent , and therefore most prominent , was in her own cook at South End , a young woman hired for the time , who never had been able to understand what she meant by a basin of nice smooth gruel , thin , but not too thin .  `` I shall go to King Solomon , '' said the Otter , `` and you shall be punished . ''  I offer it plainly as a story which children have liked , and which grew out of my early memories of Andersen 's _The Little Fir Tree_ .  I know you will soon call on her ; she is living in dread of the visit .  Men are a worthless lot .  And he set out , down the road toward the shining castle , with a good steady stride , his eyes straight ahead .  .  I had a letter from him this morning , and he will be with us within a fortnight . ''  `` It is Colonel Brandon ! ''  The tiny leaves grew two on a stem , and were almost round .  Elinor needed little observation to perceive that her reserve was a mere calmness of manner with which sense had nothing to do .  Mrs. Weston had been shewing them all to him , and now he would shew them all to Emma ; -- fortunate in having no other resemblance to a child , than in a total want of taste for what he saw , for he was slow , constant , and methodical. -- Before this second looking over was begun , however , Emma walked into the hall for the sake of a few moments ' free observation of the entrance and ground-plot of the house -- and was hardly there , when Jane Fairfax appeared , coming quickly in from the garden , and with a look of escape. -- Little expecting to meet Miss Woodhouse so soon , there was a start at first ; but Miss Woodhouse was the very person she was in quest of .  But for that reason , I should imagine the likeness must be chiefly confined to the females , for boys have very little teaching after an early age , and scramble into any hand they can get .  tap !  _Now_ you have nothing to try for .  `` Perhaps if we wait until he comes out again , he will come over here , '' said Sammy Jay , who had joined Blacky .  Whatever Lucy might think about it herself , you know , it was no business of other people to set it down for certain . ''  TO TERZAH Whate'er is born of mortal birth Must be consumed with the earth , To rise from generation free : Then what have I to do with thee ?  But can we wonder that , with such a husband to provoke inconstancy , and without a friend to advise or restrain her ( for my father lived only a few months after their marriage , and I was with my regiment in the East Indies ) she should fall ?  Some serve him in churches and in hermits ' cells , by praise and prayer ; some poor souls who have been very wicked turn from their wickedness with sorrow , and serve him with repentance ; some live faithfully and gently in humble homes , working , bringing up children , keeping kind and cheerful ; some bear pain patiently , for His sake .  There will be enough for every hope and every fear ; and though my attachment to none can equal that of a parent , it suits my ideas of comfort better than what is warmer and blinder .  Every body is lazy !  There was no comfort in having him in London ; he might as well be at Enscombe ; but Richmond was the very distance for easy intercourse .  As to an additional servant , the expense would be a trifle ; Mamma she was sure would never object to it ; and any horse would do for HIM ; he might always get one at the park ; as to a stable , the merest shed would be sufficient .  `` Yes , I made the best of it ; I always do : but I was very far from well at the time ; and I do not think I ever was so ill in my life as I have been all this morning : very unfit to be left alone , I am sure .  Between THEM no subject is finished , no communication is even made , till it has been made at least twenty times over .  `` Here is a chance to test our strength , '' said the Wind ; `` let us see which of us is strong enough to make that traveller take off his cloak ; the one who can do that shall be acknowledged the more powerful . ''  `` And the thing is certainly true .  An ' thin he came alang , Craping as shtill 's a mouse , To where the little small Rid Hin Lived in her shnug ould house .  It was terribly uncomfortable .  It was a great , three-cornered piece of sharp steel , with long handles coming up from it , so that a man could hold it in place .  `` I will leave you , '' said Elinor , `` if you will go to bed . ''  In short , I could learn nothing but that she was gone ; all the rest , for eight long months , was left to conjecture .  Two such could never be granted .  `` You will soon be cooler , if you sit still , '' said Emma .  `` Upon my word , '' she cried , `` the young man is determined not to lose any thing for want of asking .  He had done , and was unanswered .  `` Now he has got my letter , '' said she softly .  went the little hammers ; stitch , stitch , went the thread , and the little elves were hard at work .  It was now proved that he belonged to the same inn as themselves ; and this second meeting , short as it was , also proved again by the gentleman 's looks , that he thought hers very lovely , and by the readiness and propriety of his apologies , that he was a man of exceedingly good manners .  `` But I thought it was right , Elinor , '' said Marianne , `` to be guided wholly by the opinion of other people .  So did Grandfather Frog .  `` He is very obliging , '' said Emma ; `` but is he sure that Harriet means to marry him ? ''  Little Lamb , I 'll tell thee ; Little Lamb , I 'll tell thee : He is called by thy name , For He calls Himself a Lamb He is meek , and He is mild , He became a little child .  `` It will go all the better for a little rest , '' he said .  It is a sort of pain , too , which is new to me .  When the Westons arrived , the kindest looks of love , the strongest of admiration were for her , from both husband and wife ; the son approached her with a cheerful eagerness which marked her as his peculiar object , and at dinner she found him seated by her -- and , as she firmly believed , not without some dexterity on his side .  The wolves are at my lambs ! ''  I will move you out to-night . ''  This , as every thing else would have been , was too much for Marianne , who could only exclaim , in the anguish of her heart , `` Oh !  `` Excellent indeed .  I have not had a creature call on me since the second week in January , except Charles Hayter , who had been calling much oftener than was welcome .  You have shewn that you can dance , and you know we are not really so much brother and sister as to make it at all improper . ''  Every day they dry and wither more and more ; by and by they will be so weak they can scarcely cling to my branches , and the north wind will tear them all away , and nobody will remember them any more .  It was a union of the highest promise of felicity in itself , and without one real , rational difficulty to oppose or delay it .  I have now another motive for being glad that I can produce it . ''  Chapter 2  The two eldest little Knightleys were engaged to pay their grandpapa and aunt a visit of some weeks in the spring , and their papa now proposed bringing them , and staying one whole day at Hartfield -- which one day would be the very day of this party. -- His professional engagements did not allow of his being put off , but both father and daughter were disturbed by its happening so .  Had she left her where she ought , and where he had told her she ought ! -- Had she not , with a folly which no tongue could express , prevented her marrying the unexceptionable young man who would have made her happy and respectable in the line of life to which she ought to belong -- all would have been safe ; none of this dreadful sequel would have been .  The wider path was marked with lines and raked .  With great joy , he flew to the open palace window to seek out his Zelia , to try to help her .  There was that awful pail fast over his head so that he could n't see a thing .  But a very few mornings after that , when Margery went out , she saw a funny little crack opening up through the earth , the whole length of the patch .  Emma saw its artifice , and returned to her first surmises .  `` You surprise me ; I should think it must nearly have escaped her memory by THIS time . ''  cried Mr. Weston , `` about Perry and a carriage ?  It is always the lady 's right to decide on the degree of acquaintance .  `` Out of the way , there !  Emma heard that Frank wrote in the highest spirits of this arrangement , and seemed most fully to appreciate the blessing of having two months before him of such near neighbourhood to many dear friends -- for the house was taken for May and June .  She fell into violent hysterics immediately , with such screams as reached your brother 's ears , as he was sitting in his own dressing-room down stairs , thinking about writing a letter to his steward in the country .  `` Not I , '' said the Duck .  On quitting the Cobb , they all went in-doors with their new friends , and found rooms so small as none but those who invite from the heart could think capable of accommodating so many .  Even before Miss Taylor had ceased to hold the nominal office of governess , the mildness of her temper had hardly allowed her to impose any restraint ; and the shadow of authority being now long passed away , they had been living together as friend and friend very mutually attached , and Emma doing just what she liked ; highly esteeming Miss Taylor 's judgment , but directed chiefly by her own .  CHAPTER XII  Yet after a time I DID say , for at first I was quite overcome -- that if she lived , as I trusted she might , my greatest happiness would lie in promoting their marriage ; and since our arrival , since our delightful security , I have repeated it to him more fully , have given him every encouragement in my power .  Billy sometimes catches more fish than he can eat , but then he usually hides them .  `` Follow me ! ''  The old Alligator foamed at the mouth , he was so angry , but the little Jackal was gone .  She could not , however , reach such a degree of certainty , as not to be anxious to hear whether anything had been said on the subject at the other house , where the Crofts had previously been calling .  Good-bye . ''  `` I know you did ; I know it all perfectly , but -- ''  What right had he to endeavour to please , as he certainly did -- to distinguish any one young woman with persevering attention , as he certainly did -- while he really belonged to another ? -- How could he tell what mischief he might be doing ? -- How could he tell that he might not be making me in love with him ? -- very wrong , very wrong indeed . ''  `` I should be extremely happy ; I hope you can not doubt my willingness to be of even the slightest use to you , '' replied Anne ; `` but I suspect that you are considering me as having a higher claim on Mr Elliot , a greater right to influence him , than is really the case .  You do believe that there is true attachment and constancy among men .  Pray do not let them talk of it .  I shall wear a large bonnet , and bring one of my little baskets hanging on my arm .  `` Very . ''  Too bad !  Though his eyes had been long opened , even before his acquaintance with Elinor began , to her ignorance and a want of liberality in some of her opinions -- they had been equally imputed , by him , to her want of education ; and till her last letter reached him , he had always believed her to be a well-disposed , good-hearted girl , and thoroughly attached to himself .  `` Butter , Mammy , '' said Epaminondas ; `` Auntie gave it to me . ''  Anyway , that is what he said when he told about it afterward .  And how could it possibly come into your head ? ''  Jane , you have never seen Mr .  `` Can you tell me the difference between the fish that you have n't caught and the foolish green flies that I have n't caught ? ''  `` Well , my dear , 't is a true saying about an ill-wind , for it will be all the better for Colonel Brandon .  The speech was more to Emma than to Harriet , which Emma could understand .  Some of the Fomorians sprang to their feet , but before any of them could grasp a weapon , the Dagda called out to his harp on the wall , `` Come to me , O my harp ! ''  Her regard was receiving strength by invariable praise of him , and her regrets kept alive , and feelings irritated by ceaseless repetitions of Miss Hawkins 's happiness , and continual observation of , how much he seemed attached ! -- his air as he walked by the house -- the very sitting of his hat , being all in proof of how much he was in love !  `` Robert Martin has no great loss -- if he can but think so ; and I hope it will not be long before he does .  `` Dear me ! ''  She watched him well .  Her sorrow , her disappointment , her deep regret , when I told her that I was obliged to leave Devonshire so immediately -- I never shall forget it -- united too with such reliance , such confidence in me ! -- Oh , God ! -- what a hard-hearted rascal I was ! ''  You are a great deal too necessary at Hartfield to be spared to Abbey-Mill . ''  Miss Bates was obliged to return without success ; Jane was quite unpersuadable ; the mere proposal of going out seemed to make her worse. -- Emma wished she could have seen her , and tried her own powers ; but , almost before she could hint the wish , Miss Bates made it appear that she had promised her niece on no account to let Miss Woodhouse in .  I was banished to the house of a relation far distant , and she was allowed no liberty , no society , no amusement , till my father 's point was gained .  Dear Mrs. Weston !  `` Indeed , I can easily believe that it was a very great relief to you , to acknowledge your situation to me , and be assured that you shall never have reason to repent it .  who can think of Miss Smith , when Miss Woodhouse is near !  I can not keep my eyes from it .  There is a littleness about him which you discovered , and which I did not : and I was fully convinced of his being in love with Harriet .  Is this true ?  May its approval beam in that soft eye !  It may be possible to do without dancing entirely .  It is like a woman 's writing . ''  The names which occasionally dropt of former associates , the allusions to former practices and pursuits , suggested suspicions not favourable of what he had been .  he cried , and steered for the light .  It made Margery dance , just to read the names , -- nasturtium , giant helianthus , canariensis , calendula , Canterbury bells : more names than I can tell you ; and other packages , bigger , that said , `` Sweet Peas , '' `` French beans , '' `` Carrots , '' `` Wallflowers , '' and such things !  Get up and go over all the rooms in the house if you like it . ''  `` Oh !  She was far from depending on that result of his preference of her , which her mother and sister still considered as certain .  He could not then avoid it , but her touch seemed painful to him , and he held her hand only for a moment .  Elinor could not help smiling at this display of indifference towards the manners of a person , to whom she had often had difficulty in persuading Marianne to behave with tolerable politeness ; and resolved within herself , that if her sister persisted in going , she would go likewise , as she did not think it proper that Marianne should be left to the sole guidance of her own judgment , or that Mrs. Jennings should be abandoned to the mercy of Marianne for all the comfort of her domestic hours .  So mild and ladylike -- and with such talents ! -- I assure you I think she has very extraordinary talents .  The person who told me the story did n't know ; nobody knows .  She could not be complying , she dreaded being quarrelsome ; her heroism reached only to silence .  I did not even know , till I understood his design , that the living was vacant ; nor had it ever occurred to me that he might have had such a living in his gift .  When he had ploughed , the man went back to his cart and unloaded another farm implement .  In the air he was caught by a breeze and taken up higher than the trees .  We must all feel for him ; and the more so , because it is totally out of our power to assist him . ''  `` A surgeon ! ''  They spoke , therefore , of Mrs. Churchill 's death with mutual forbearance .  But the little Gingerbread Boy ran harder than ever , and as he ran he cried out , -- `` I have run away from a little old woman , `` A little old man , `` A cow , `` A horse , `` And I can run away from you , I can ! ''  Little Joe darted over to the log and looked on the other side .  As he looked up from his prayer , a white-robed angel stood in the path before him .  His abilities in every respect improve as much upon acquaintance as his manners and person .  `` Friend Brahmin , where were you ? ''  The second day brought them into the cherished , or the prohibited , county of Somerset , for as such was it dwelt on by turns in Marianne 's imagination ; and in the forenoon of the third they drove up to Cleveland .  If Emma had still , at intervals , an anxious feeling for Harriet , a momentary doubt of its being possible for her to be really cured of her attachment to Mr. Knightley , and really able to accept another man from unbiased inclination , it was not long that she had to suffer from the recurrence of any such uncertainty .  Willoughby had spent the preceding evening with them , and Margaret , by being left some time in the parlour with only him and Marianne , had had opportunity for observations , which , with a most important face , she communicated to her eldest sister , when they were next by themselves .  `` As soon as my aunt gets well , I shall go abroad , '' said he .  She was debating within herself on the eligibility of beginning her story directly , or postponing it till Marianne were in stronger health ; -- and they crept on for a few minutes in silence .  Elinor 's compassion for him increased , as she had reason to suspect that the misery of disappointed love had already been known to him .  For herself , she feared to move , lest she should be seen .  I have always heard of Lady Russell as a woman of the greatest influence with everybody !  Well THAT is an odd kind of delicacy !  Between _them_ it was more the intimacy of sisters .  Will it not be wiser to accept the society of those good ladies in Laura Place , and enjoy all the advantages of the connexion as far as possible ?  `` My dearest Emma , '' said he , `` for dearest you will always be , whatever the event of this hour 's conversation , my dearest , most beloved Emma -- tell me at once .  says she , `` ye do n't have me ; Ye may as well go home . ''  But by and by , one cold winter 's morning , men came with a sledge and horses , and after they had cut here and there they came to the circle of trees round the Little Fir Tree , and looked all about .  Elinor could not NOW be made unhappy by this behaviour. -- A few months ago it would have hurt her exceedingly ; but it was not in Mrs. Ferrars ' power to distress her by it now ; -- and the difference of her manners to the Miss Steeles , a difference which seemed purposely made to humble her more , only amused her .  `` The blackberry-bush , mamma ; what does it say ?  `Woman , lovely woman . '  `` He had seen a group of old acquaintance in the street as he passed -- he had not stopped , he would not stop for more than a word -- but he had the vanity to think they would be disappointed if he did not call , and much as he wished to stay longer at Hartfield , he must hurry off . ''  Bad indeed must the nature of Marianne 's affliction be , when her mother could talk of fortitude !  I sent him away with smiles .  But I know they will , because it is a family that a certain lady , of some consequence , at Enscombe , has a particular dislike to : and though it is thought necessary to invite them once in two or three years , they always are put off when it comes to the point .  So every day , when she went out for food , she told the little Larks to look and listen very closely to everything that went on , and to tell her all they saw and heard when she came home .  `` I 'll teach you manners !  `` We must ask Mr. and Mrs. Weston to dine with us , while Isabella is here . ''  I suppose you have seen ploughs , but Margery never had , and she watched with great interest , while the man and her father took the plough from the cart and harnessed the horses to it .  The shower was heavy , but short ; and it had not been over five minutes , when in came Harriet , with just the heated , agitated look which hurrying thither with a full heart was likely to give ; and the `` Oh !  The calm and polite unconcern of Lady Middleton on the occasion was a happy relief to Elinor 's spirits , oppressed as they often were by the clamorous kindness of the others .  `` And yet , '' said Emma , beginning hastily and with an arch look , but soon stopping -- it was better , however , to know the worst at once -- she hurried on -- '' And yet , perhaps , you may hardly be aware yourself how highly it is .  `` You have no ambition , I well know .  `` I am sure William Larkins will not like it .  `` Oh , my love , '' cried Mrs. Palmer to her husband , who just then entered the room -- '' you must help me to persuade the Miss Dashwoods to go to town this winter . ''  She would not allow the presence of Lucy , nor the consciousness of some injustice towards herself , to deter her from saying that she was happy to see him , and that she had very much regretted being from home , when he called before in Berkeley Street .  Charles Hayter was the eldest of all the cousins , and a very amiable , pleasing young man , between whom and Henrietta there had been a considerable appearance of attachment previous to Captain Wentworth 's introduction .  -- for presently she came forward -- came quite up to me , and asked me how I did , and seemed ready to shake hands , if I would .  When the tailor saw them coming , he got out of the coach with his wife , and he sat down on the ground .  He re-urged -- she re-declined ; and he seemed then about to make his bow , when taking the paper from the table , she returned it --  He may be very `aimable , ' have very good manners , and be very agreeable ; but he can have no English delicacy towards the feelings of other people : nothing really amiable about him . ''  The contrivances of modern days indeed have rendered a gentleman 's carriage perfectly complete .  She had suffered very much from cramp after dancing , and her first attempt to mount the bank brought on such a return of it as made her absolutely powerless -- and in this state , and exceedingly terrified , she had been obliged to remain .  I have been silent from surprize merely , excessive surprize .  And if poor little Anna Weston is to be spoiled , it will be the greatest humanity in you to do as much for her as you have done for me , except falling in love with her when she is thirteen . ''  So I would advise you two , to set off for town , when you are tired of Barton , without saying a word to Miss Dashwood about it . ''  fumed the Whale .  I shall say directly , 'I wonder how you could think of such a thing ?  At the back were the sweet peas , which would grow tall , like a screen ; on the two sides , for a kind of hedge , were yellow sunflowers ; and along the front edge were the gay nasturtiums .  In time , of course , Mr. Knightley would be forgotten , that is , supplanted ; but this could not be expected to happen very early .  He has no feeling for others .  said Marianne , as she wandered alone before the house , on the last evening of their being there ; `` when shall I cease to regret you ! -- when learn to feel a home elsewhere ! -- Oh !  But what is distance , Mr. Weston , to people of large fortune ? -- You would be amazed to hear how my brother , Mr. Suckling , sometimes flies about .  He is the very best young man -- But , my dear Jane , if you remember , I told you yesterday he was precisely the height of Mr. Perry .  And the Dewdrop slid from the blade of grass , tumbled into the parched beak , and was eagerly swallowed .  `` Exert yourself , dear Marianne , '' she cried , `` if you would not kill yourself and all who love you .  It was quite unkind of you not to come on Thursday . ''  Your resolution , or rather your expectation of never marrying , results from an idea that the person whom you might prefer , would be too greatly your superior in situation to think of you .  They felt sure that Farmer Brown 's boy would follow them , and they meant to lead him to where Sammy had seen Buster Bear that morning .  `` I am writing home , Marianne , '' said Elinor ; `` had not you better defer your letter for a day or two ? ''  Then , perhaps , you can not tell me what sort of a woman she is ? ''  He was here only a quarter of an hour , and in a state of agitation which did not allow the full use even of the time he could stay -- but that there had been misunderstandings he decidedly said .  We are rather out of distance of the very striking beauties which attract the sort of parties you speak of ; and we are a very quiet set of people , I believe ; more disposed to stay at home than engage in schemes of pleasure . ''  `` Miss Woodhouse , as you will not give me your opinion , I must do as well as I can by myself ; and I have now quite determined , and really almost made up my mind -- to refuse Mr. Martin .  I shall call hills steep , which ought to be bold ; surfaces strange and uncouth , which ought to be irregular and rugged ; and distant objects out of sight , which ought only to be indistinct through the soft medium of a hazy atmosphere .  If one thinks of all that it has to do , and all that it does so well , it is really astonishing ! ''  for shame ! ''  `` Thou knowest best , '' he said , `` I only know that I have sinned . ''  He has no occasion to marry , either to fill up his time or his heart . ''  `` No engagement ! ''  Margery was delighted .  `` No ; he thought it very far from an improvement -- a very bad plan -- much worse than the other .  This is the story : When the Christ Child was born , all people , animals , trees , and other plants felt that a great happiness had come into the world .  --  If I loved a man , as she loves the Admiral , I would always be with him , nothing should ever separate us , and I would rather be overturned by him , than driven safely by anybody else . ''  Mr. Elton looked all alarm on the occasion , as he exclaimed ,  Captain Wentworth was come to Kellynch as to a home , to stay as long as he liked , being as thoroughly the object of the Admiral 's fraternal kindness as of his wife 's .  `` Thank you , '' replied Buster , and his eyes twinkled more than ever .  She knew the limitations of her own powers too well to attempt more than she could perform with credit ; she wanted neither taste nor spirit in the little things which are generally acceptable , and could accompany her own voice well .  Some little present of furniture too may be acceptable then . ''  He paused for her assent and compassion ; and she forced herself to say ,  A big piece was to be used for wheat and peas and beans , and a little piece at the end was to be given to Margery .  -- And from her great , her more than commonly thankful delight towards Mrs. Elton for being there , Emma guessed that there had been a little show of resentment towards Jane , from the vicarage quarter , which was now graciously overcome. -- After a few whispers , indeed , which placed it beyond a guess , Mrs. Elton , speaking louder , said ,  I really am ashamed of always leading the way . ''  In short , she sat , during the first visit , looking at Jane Fairfax with twofold complacency ; the sense of pleasure and the sense of rendering justice , and was determining that she would dislike her no longer .  As to his going , it was inevitable .  I wish her extremely well : and , no doubt , there are men who might not object to -- Every body has their level : but as for myself , I am not , I think , quite so much at a loss .  What Elinor said in reply she could not distinguish , but judged from the motion of her lips , that she did not think THAT any material objection ; -- and Mrs. Jennings commended her in her heart for being so honest .  She tried to be calm , and leave things to take their course , and tried to dwell much on this argument of rational dependence : -- `` Surely , if there be constant attachment on each side , our hearts must understand each other ere long .  I care not who knows that I am wretched .  Again , it was Mary 's complaint , that Mrs Musgrove was very apt not to give her the precedence that was her due , when they dined at the Great House with other families ; and she did not see any reason why she was to be considered so much at home as to lose her place .  `` I have a great curiosity to see Mrs. Elton , I have heard so much of her .  Is this fair , Mrs .  Her voice was not unsteady ; but her mind was in all the perturbation that such a development of self , such a burst of threatening evil , such a confusion of sudden and perplexing emotions , must create. -- She listened with much inward suffering , but with great outward patience , to Harriet 's detail. -- Methodical , or well arranged , or very well delivered , it could not be expected to be ; but it contained , when separated from all the feebleness and tautology of the narration , a substance to sink her spirit -- especially with the corroborating circumstances , which her own memory brought in favour of Mr. Knightley 's most improved opinion of Harriet .  An excellent , good-hearted fellow , I assure you ; a very active , zealous officer too , which is more than you would think for , perhaps , for that soft sort of manner does not do him justice . ''  `` Good heavens ! ''  `` You may well be amazed , '' returned Mrs. Weston , still averting her eyes , and talking on with eagerness , that Emma might have time to recover -- `` You may well be amazed .  He had spent his whole solitary evening in the room adjoining theirs ; had heard voices , mirth continually ; thought they must be a most delightful set of people , longed to be with them , but certainly without the smallest suspicion of his possessing the shadow of a right to introduce himself .  `` I am very glad you did , and that you communicated it to me .  Goldsmith tells us , that when lovely woman stoops to folly , she has nothing to do but to die ; and when she stoops to be disagreeable , it is equally to be recommended as a clearer of ill-fame .  Pray do not make any more matches . ''  You are always with me . ''  `` Not yet .  I do not expect my children to be asked , you know .  I have frequently thought that I must have been intended by nature to be fond of low company , I am so little at my ease among strangers of gentility ! ''  As to men and women , our opinions are sometimes very different ; but with regard to these children , I observe we never disagree . ''  He had been sitting with her , it appeared , most companionably at home , till her usual hour of exercise ; and on being desired to chuse their walk , immediately fixed on Highbury. -- '' He did not doubt there being very pleasant walks in every direction , but if left to him , he should always chuse the same .  Surry is the garden of England . ''  no , '' said he ; `` it would be the extreme of imprudence .  Then he crept and crawled inside , and hid himself there in the house , to wait till the little Jackal should come home .  My being saved from pain is a very secondary consideration .  I have a right to talk on such subjects , without being suspected of introducing Robert Martin . ''  `` Did you observe the woman who opened the door to you when you called yesterday ? ''  `` Little Joe Otter has told us how he saw Farmer Brown 's boy hurry home when he found the footprint of Buster Bear on the edge of the Laughing Brook , and how all the way he kept looking behind him , as if he were afraid .  She had heard and seen it all ; and felt some curiosity to know whether the wet walk of this morning had produced any .  If a separation of two months should not have cooled him , there were dangers and evils before her : -- caution for him and for herself would be necessary .  In what furnace was thy brain ?  I am sure I was very much surprized when I first heard she was going to be married . ''  But others were up before him , for , to his surprise , he saw a strange gentleman with his mother .  THE LITTLE BOY LOST `` Father , father , where are you going ?  `` This was the light in which it appeared to those who knew the family , long before you returned to it ; and Colonel Wallis had his eye upon your father enough to be sensible of it , though he did not then visit in Camden Place ; but his regard for Mr Elliot gave him an interest in watching all that was going on there , and when Mr Elliot came to Bath for a day or two , as he happened to do a little before Christmas , Colonel Wallis made him acquainted with the appearance of things , and the reports beginning to prevail .  He knows there must have been twenty better men than himself applying for her at the same time .  It determined him to attempt a reconciliation , though not exactly in the manner pointed out by their brother and sister .  said the Field Mouse .  `Oh ! '  After listening to this full description of Mr Elliot , Anne could not but express some surprise at Mrs Smith 's having spoken of him so favourably in the beginning of their conversation .  The gifts you asked for are here , but they come from my hand . ''  Marianne could never love by halves ; and her whole heart became , in time , as much devoted to her husband , as it had once been to Willoughby .  Quite worn out and broken up .  no , that is clear enough .  go to-day , go to-day .  She paused. -- Her daughter could not quite agree with her , but her dissent was not heard , and therefore gave no offence .  my dear child , do you accuse Willoughby and Marianne of concealment ?  Jane will be only four miles from Maple Grove . ''  `` My Emma , he means no such thing .  He is half way to Windsor by this time . ''  `` Not to my feelings .  `` I shall very soon think him handsome , Elinor , if I do not now .  In that point , however , I undervalued my own magnanimity , as the event declared ; for I went , I saw her , and saw her miserable , and left her miserable -- and left her hoping never to see her again . ''  But to be sure , in general they are so spoilt !  Emma grieved that she could not be more openly just to one important service which his better sense would have rendered her , to the advice which would have saved her from the worst of all her womanly follies -- her wilful intimacy with Harriet Smith ; but it was too tender a subject. -- She could not enter on it. -- Harriet was very seldom mentioned between them .  ho !  Quite a humourist .  She was soon convinced that it was not for herself she was feeling at all apprehensive or embarrassed ; it was for him .  Then the two Ducks rose slowly in the air and flew away with their burden .  All Anne 's wishes had been for the latter .  `` And yet , '' said Anne to herself , as they now moved forward to meet the party , `` he has not , perhaps , a more sorrowing heart than I have .  And she began to sink softly down toward the earth .  A degree of unexpected cordiality , however , in the welcome she received , did her good .  Elinor told him the number of the house .  Half an hour passed away , and the favourable symptom yet blessed her .  But I do not like the corner into Vicarage Lane . ''  `` Your behaviour was certainly very wrong , '' said she ; `` because -- to say nothing of my own conviction , our relations were all led away by it to fancy and expect WHAT , as you were THEN situated , could never be . ''  But she had believed them to be well-meaning , worthy people before ; and what difference did this make in the evils of the connexion ?  He hunted and shot , and she humoured her children ; and these were their only resources .  On one side was a table occupied by some chattering girls , cutting up silk and gold paper ; and on the other were tressels and trays , bending under the weight of brawn and cold pies , where riotous boys were holding high revel ; the whole completed by a roaring Christmas fire , which seemed determined to be heard , in spite of all the noise of the others .  She did her best when thus called on , by speaking of Lady Middleton with more warmth than she felt , though with far less than Miss Lucy .  With all dear Emma 's little faults , she is an excellent creature .  I would have her understand me .  They called for him in their way ; were all extremely amused ; and my brother asked him to dine with them the next day -- which he did -- and in the course of that visit ( as I understand ) he found an opportunity of speaking to Harriet ; and certainly did not speak in vain. -- She made him , by her acceptance , as happy even as he is deserving .  It darted through her , with the speed of an arrow , that Mr. Knightley must marry no one but herself !  He was now esteemed quite worthy to address the daughter of a foolish , spendthrift baronet , who had not had principle or sense enough to maintain himself in the situation in which Providence had placed him , and who could give his daughter at present but a small part of the share of ten thousand pounds which must be hers hereafter .  Her beautiful face was stern , and her silver voice rang like a trumpet , as she said , `` Wicked and selfish prince , you have become baser than the beasts you hunt ; you are furious as a lion , revengeful as a serpent , greedy as a wolf , and brutal as a bull ; take , therefore , the shape of those beasts whom you resemble ! ''  `` What is this ? ''  Short of that , it is all guess and luck -- and will generally be ill-luck .  `` I thought Captain Benwick a very pleasing young man , '' said Anne , `` and I understand that he bears an excellent character . ''  How the delicacy , the discretion of his favourite could have been so lain asleep !  `` Perhaps she might ; but it is not every man 's fate to marry the woman who loves him best .  At last he turned round again , and regarded them both ; she started up , and pronouncing his name in a tone of affection , held out her hand to him .  But surely you may put off this old lady till to-morrow : she is not so near her end , I presume , but that she may hope to see another day .  Marianne 's feelings did not stop here .  The child was to be kept in bed and amused as quietly as possible ; but what was there for a father to do ?  Harriet would be anxiety enough ; she need no longer be unhappy about Jane , whose troubles and whose ill-health having , of course , the same origin , must be equally under cure. -- Her days of insignificance and evil were over. -- She would soon be well , and happy , and prosperous. -- Emma could now imagine why her own attentions had been slighted .  She was most forcibly struck .  She wandered in the land of clouds thro ' valleys dark , listning Dolors & lamentations : waiting oft beside the dewy grave She stood in silence , listning to the voices of the ground , Till to her own grave plot she came , & there she sat down .  If he had been whistling , he would n't have heard it at all .  `` Well , you will soon be better now , '' replied Anne , cheerfully .  What , in heaven 's name , is to be done next ? ''  `` And had you a great many smart beaux there ?  `` I think she must be here soon , '' said he .  I must get rid of every thing. -- There it goes , and there is an end , thank Heaven !  Emma would not agree to this , and began a warm defence of Miss Fairfax 's complexion .  you will never guess .  Mr Elliot has sense to understand the value of such a woman .  The purity of her life , the formality of her notions , her ignorance of the world -- every thing was against me .  I want you to talk about me to Mr Elliot .  `` I must see Captain Benwick before I decide , '' said Lady Russell , smiling .  `` But how is your fame to be established ?  `` Will you stay with me ?  But how is your acquaintance to be long supported , under such extraordinary despatch of every subject for discourse ?  By only raising my voice , and saying any thing two or three times over , she is sure to hear ; but then she is used to my voice .  Yes , I understand the sort of mind .  We told you about the laundry-door , at Uppercross .  He had gone away rejected and mortified -- disappointed in a very sanguine hope , after a series of what appeared to him strong encouragement ; and not only losing the right lady , but finding himself debased to the level of a very wrong one .  Every moment had brought a fresh surprize ; and every surprize must be matter of humiliation to her. -- How to understand it all !  `` If she is really ill , why not go to Bath , Mr .  Marianne 's pianoforte was unpacked and properly disposed of ; and Elinor 's drawings were affixed to the walls of their sitting room .  Emma was sure he had not forgiven her ; he looked unlike himself .  I 'll eat you all up to the last hair on your tail ! ''  May I not kick my own dog , if I choose ?  Then he pulled up a little radish plant and a tiny beet .  The ivory , the gold , and the pearls , all received their appointment , and the gentleman having named the last day on which his existence could be continued without the possession of the toothpick-case , drew on his gloves with leisurely care , and bestowing another glance on the Miss Dashwoods , but such a one as seemed rather to demand than express admiration , walked off with a happy air of real conceit and affected indifference .  Maple Grove will probably be my model more than it ought to be -- for we do not at all affect to equal my brother , Mr. Suckling , in income. -- However , my resolution is taken as to noticing Jane Fairfax. -- I shall certainly have her very often at my house , shall introduce her wherever I can , shall have musical parties to draw out her talents , and shall be constantly on the watch for an eligible situation .  The Admiral , after taking two or three refreshing turns about the room with his hands behind him , being called to order by his wife , now came up to Captain Wentworth , and without any observation of what he might be interrupting , thinking only of his own thoughts , began with --  `` None , I thank you , unless you will give me the pleasure of your company the little way our road lies together .  Mrs. Jennings was quite right in what she said .  `` Do come now , '' said he -- '' pray come -- you must come -- I declare you shall come -- You ca n't think how you will like them .  She helped all she could with the housework , but nothing could really help the tired mother except money ; she needed money for food and clothes , and someone grown up , to help in the house .  This , however , was a profound secret , not to be breathed beyond their own circle .  I hope he will be calling soon .  They were by no means tired of wondering and admiring ; and not even Louisa seemed to feel that they had parted with Captain Wentworth long , when they saw him coming after them , with three companions , all well known already , by description , to be Captain and Mrs Harville , and a Captain Benwick , who was staying with them .  Surely you must be mistaken .  `` It would be a disgrace to you to have it said that one of your subjects dared disobey you ! ''  Dear me , how clever ! -- Could it really be meant for me ? ''  Elinor 's curiosity to see Mrs. Ferrars was satisfied. -- She had found in her every thing that could tend to make a farther connection between the families undesirable. -- She had seen enough of her pride , her meanness , and her determined prejudice against herself , to comprehend all the difficulties that must have perplexed the engagement , and retarded the marriage , of Edward and herself , had he been otherwise free ; -- and she had seen almost enough to be thankful for her OWN sake , that one greater obstacle preserved her from suffering under any other of Mrs. Ferrars 's creation , preserved her from all dependence upon her caprice , or any solicitude for her good opinion .  Her spirits were not high .  They were , consequently , to stay the night there , and not to be expected back till the next day 's dinner .  With such sensations , Mr. Elton 's civilities were dreadfully ill-timed ; but she had the comfort of appearing very polite , while feeling very cross -- and of thinking that the rest of the visit could not possibly pass without bringing forward the same information again , or the substance of it , from the open-hearted Mr .  It was very exciting , the most exciting thing they could remember .  But he was careless and immethodical , like other men , about those things ; and when I came to examine his papers , I found it with others still more trivial , from different people scattered here and there , while many letters and memorandums of real importance had been destroyed .  It was a very great relief to Emma to find Harriet as desirous as herself to avoid a meeting .  And it bears the fruit of Deceit , Ruddy and sweet to eat , And the raven his nest has made In its thickest shade .  `` Oh that they would ! ''  It was fixed accordingly , that Mrs Clay should be of the party in the carriage ; and they had just reached this point , when Anne , as she sat near the window , descried , most decidedly and distinctly , Captain Wentworth walking down the street .  Emma could not forgive her ; -- but as neither provocation nor resentment were discerned by Mr. Knightley , who had been of the party , and had seen only proper attention and pleasing behaviour on each side , he was expressing the next morning , being at Hartfield again on business with Mr. Woodhouse , his approbation of the whole ; not so openly as he might have done had her father been out of the room , but speaking plain enough to be very intelligible to Emma .  `` N -- no , '' said the little Tulip , `` you ca n't come in . ''  In re-settling themselves there were now many changes , the result of which was favourable for her .  This is meeting quite in fairy-land ! -- Such a transformation ! -- Must not compliment , I know ( eyeing Emma most complacently ) -- that would be rude -- but upon my word , Miss Woodhouse , you do look -- how do you like Jane 's hair ? -- You are a judge. -- She did it all herself .  His Mammy looked at it , and she said , -- `` Law 's sake !  `` I do not exactly know , for Henrietta and I were at school at the time ; but I believe about a year before he married Mary .  Fortunately for him , Highbury , including Randalls in the same parish , and Donwell Abbey in the parish adjoining , the seat of Mr. Knightley , comprehended many such .  The conviction seemed real ; he looked as if he felt it .  However it might end , he was without any question their pleasantest acquaintance in Bath : she saw nobody equal to him ; and it was a great indulgence now and then to talk to him about Lyme , which he seemed to have as lively a wish to see again , and to see more of , as herself .  To her own heart it was a delightful affair , to her imagination it was even a ridiculous one , but to her reason , her judgment , it was completely a puzzle .  The good understanding between the Colonel and Miss Dashwood seemed rather to declare that the honours of the mulberry-tree , the canal , and the yew arbour , would all be made over to HER ; and Mrs. Jennings had , for some time ceased to think at all of Mrs. Ferrars .  Why was not she to be as useful as Anne ?  Mrs. Palmer laughed , and said it would not do her any harm .  `` If he would only have done as well by himself , '' said John Dashwood , `` as all his friends were disposed to do by him , he might now have been in his proper situation , and would have wanted for nothing .  But have I ever known it ? -- Well may it be doubted ; for , had I really loved , could I have sacrificed my feelings to vanity , to avarice ? -- or , what is more , could I have sacrificed hers ? -- But I have done it .  `` I hope he does , '' replied Mr. Knightley coolly , and resuming the letter .  It was possible that you might retain the feelings of the past , as I did ; and one encouragement happened to be mine .  He came down by yesterday 's coach , and was with me this morning immediately after breakfast , to report his proceedings , first on my affairs , and then on his own .  `` The change in the neck was just what was needed , '' said the second ; `` it is very graceful now . ''  `` You can not see too much perfection in Mrs. Weston for my feelings , '' said Emma ; `` were you to guess her to be _eighteen_ , I should listen with pleasure ; but _she_ would be ready to quarrel with you for using such words .  She would not let Jane say , `No ; ' for when Jane first heard of it , ( it was the day before yesterday , the very morning we were at Donwell , ) when Jane first heard of it , she was quite decided against accepting the offer , and for the reasons you mention ; exactly as you say , she had made up her mind to close with nothing till Colonel Campbell 's return , and nothing should induce her to enter into any engagement at present -- and so she told Mrs. Elton over and over again -- and I am sure I had no more idea that she would change her mind ! -- but that good Mrs. Elton , whose judgment never fails her , saw farther than I did .  Yet she bore it with so much composure , she seemed scarcely to notice it .  It was in one of these short meetings , each apparently occupied in admiring a fine display of greenhouse plants , that she said --  I am glad they are not on this side of the way .  We measured the dining-room , and found it would hold exactly eighteen couple , and the affair was arranged precisely after my plan .  cried Miss Bates .  They recommended the army .  What was his horror to see that the young girl was Zelia !  He heard Sammy Jay way off in the distance screaming , `` Thief !  The letter I am looking for was one written by Mr Elliot to him before our marriage , and happened to be saved ; why , one can hardly imagine .  The first thing they came to , to ask , was an old Banyan Tree , by the wayside .  `` I did not thoroughly understand what you were telling your brother , '' cried Emma , `` about your friend Mr. Graham 's intending to have a bailiff from Scotland , to look after his new estate .  Happy , happy Elinor , YOU can not have an idea of what I suffer . ''  said she to the footman who then entered with the parcels .  How did you all behave ?  She could not stay .  But these objections had all , with that happy ardour of youth which Marianne and her mother equally shared , been overcome or overlooked ; and Elinor , in spite of every occasional doubt of Willoughby 's constancy , could not witness the rapture of delightful expectation which filled the whole soul and beamed in the eyes of Marianne , without feeling how blank was her own prospect , how cheerless her own state of mind in the comparison , and how gladly she would engage in the solicitude of Marianne 's situation to have the same animating object in view , the same possibility of hope .  `` I believe I 'll visit the Old Pasture to-morrow morning myself , '' thought he .  How could such a thought occur to you ?  Most unwilling was she to awaken from such a dream of felicity to comprehend all the unhappy truths which attended the affair ; and for some time she refused to submit to them .  NURSE 'S SONG When voices of children are heard on the green , And whisperings are in the dale , The days of my youth rise fresh in my mind , My face turns green and pale .  When their promised visit to the Park and consequent introduction to these young ladies took place , they found in the appearance of the eldest , who was nearly thirty , with a very plain and not a sensible face , nothing to admire ; but in the other , who was not more than two or three and twenty , they acknowledged considerable beauty ; her features were pretty , and she had a sharp quick eye , and a smartness of air , which though it did not give actual elegance or grace , gave distinction to her person. -- Their manners were particularly civil , and Elinor soon allowed them credit for some kind of sense , when she saw with what constant and judicious attention they were making themselves agreeable to Lady Middleton .  Where a man does his best with only moderate powers , he will have the advantage over negligent superiority .  You shall have a charming wife . ''  Though heavy and feverish , with a pain in her limbs , and a cough , and a sore throat , a good night 's rest was to cure her entirely ; and it was with difficulty that Elinor prevailed on her , when she went to bed , to try one or two of the simplest of the remedies .  `` Such excellent parents as Mr and Mrs Musgrove , '' exclaimed Anne , `` should be happy in their children 's marriages .  It was a great consolation that Mr. Elton should not be really in love with her , or so particularly amiable as to make it shocking to disappoint him -- that Harriet 's nature should not be of that superior sort in which the feelings are most acute and retentive -- and that there could be no necessity for any body 's knowing what had passed except the three principals , and especially for her father 's being given a moment 's uneasiness about it .  What a strange thing love is !  He had given it , he could assure her , very long and calm consideration ; he had been walking away from William Larkins the whole morning , to have his thoughts to himself .  Even timid little Whitefoot the Wood Mouse was where he could peer out and see without being seen .  Elinor was employed in walking thoughtfully from the fire to the window , from the window to the fire , without knowing that she received warmth from one , or discerning objects through the other ; and Marianne , seated at the foot of the bed , with her head leaning against one of its posts , again took up Willoughby 's letter , and , after shuddering over every sentence , exclaimed --  Sophy must write , and beg him to come to Bath .  I know what you mean -- but Emma 's hand is the strongest . ''  `` I am afraid , '' returned Emma , sighing , `` that I must often have contributed to make her unhappy . ''  Charles 's attentions to Henrietta had been observed by her father and mother without any disapprobation .  `` Oh !  Their children had more modern minds and manners .  They don't have to be very special in shape , you see , because they do n't stay on the plant after it is grown up . ''  Then Little Joe gave a funny little gasp .  She read what made her wretched .  `` What was I talking of ? ''  She hoped when clear of Milsom Street to have her curiosity gratified ; but she was still obliged to wait , for the Admiral had made up his mind not to begin till they had gained the greater space and quiet of Belmont ; and as she was not really Mrs Croft , she must let him have his own way .  `` Do you know where they came from ? ''  It is natural , and it is honourable. -- Yes , honourable , I think , to chuse so well and so gratefully. -- But that it will be a fortunate preference is more that I can promise .  Emma saw him only once ; but two or three times every day Harriet was sure _just_ to meet with him , or _just_ to miss him , _just_ to hear his voice , or see his shoulder , _just_ to have something occur to preserve him in her fancy , in all the favouring warmth of surprize and conjecture .  When Harriet had closed her evidence , she appealed to her dear Miss Woodhouse , to say whether she had not good ground for hope .  By and by , another day , Epaminondas went to see his Auntie again , and ; this time she gave him a little new puppy-dog to take home .  `` They would have solicited the honour earlier , but had been waiting the arrival of a folding-screen from London , which they hoped might keep Mr. Woodhouse from any draught of air , and therefore induce him the more readily to give them the honour of his company . ''  He does not draw himself , indeed , but he has great pleasure in seeing the performances of other people , and I assure you he is by no means deficient in natural taste , though he has not had opportunities of improving it .  Elton . ''  Marianne 's countenance sunk .  There is my sister ; and really quite her own little elegant figure ! -- and the face not unlike .  `` Yes , yes , pray pass _me_ , '' added her husband , with a sort of sneering consciousness ; `` _I_ have nothing to say that can entertain Miss Woodhouse , or any other young lady .  Blessed with so many resources within myself , the world was not necessary to _me_ .  The day of separation and departure arrived ; and Marianne , after taking so particular and lengthened a leave of Mrs. Jennings , one so earnestly grateful , so full of respect and kind wishes as seemed due to her own heart from a secret acknowledgment of past inattention , and bidding Colonel Brandon farewell with a cordiality of a friend , was carefully assisted by him into the carriage , of which he seemed anxious that she should engross at least half .  She could see nothing but evil in it .  They were just approaching the house where lived Mrs. and Miss Bates .  He engaged to be with them by four o'clock .  But she had not been there two minutes when she found that Harriet 's habits of dependence and imitation were bringing her up too , and that , in short , they would both be soon after her .  cried Harriet .  `` This will not be your only visit to Randalls . ''  The hasty engagement she had entered into with that woman -- Here , my dear madam , I was obliged to leave off abruptly , to recollect and compose myself. -- I have been walking over the country , and am now , I hope , rational enough to make the rest of my letter what it ought to be. -- It is , in fact , a most mortifying retrospect for me .  But why be acquainted with us now ? ''  Everybody in the court was filled with delight at the music of the new nightingale .  `` Your wife ! -- The letter was in your own hand-writing . ''  She dreaded the performance of it , dreaded what its effect on Marianne might be ; doubted whether after such an explanation she could ever be happy with another ; and for a moment wished Willoughby a widower .  I will send you some more , before they get good for nothing . '  `` But why should such precaution be used ? -- Though it is not to be supposed that Mrs. Ferrars can have the smallest satisfaction in knowing that her son has money enough to live upon , -- for THAT must be quite out of the question ; yet why , upon her late behaviour , is she supposed to feel at all ? -- She has done with her son , she cast him off for ever , and has made all those over whom she had any influence , cast him off likewise .  `` Bond Street , January .  You may be very sure I shall always take care of _them_ . ''  She had sent while dressing , and the answer had been , `` Much the same -- not better . ''  She had all the natural grace of sweetness of temper and artlessness in herself .  Sleeping Lyca lay While the beasts of prey , Come from caverns deep , Viewed the maid asleep .  But she had promised to hear him , and her curiosity no less than her honor was engaged .  `` To be sure it is ; and , indeed , it strikes me that they can want no addition at all .  `` A man can not be more so , '' was his short , full answer .  `` Impropriety !  Elinor has not my feelings , and therefore she may overlook it , and be happy with him .  said he , `` I believe Buster Bear is afraid too ! ''  Do n't let them make YOU unhappy . ''  The cottage seemed to be considered and loved by him as his home ; many more of his hours were spent there than at Allenham ; and if no general engagement collected them at the park , the exercise which called him out in the morning was almost certain of ending there , where the rest of the day was spent by himself at the side of Marianne , and by his favourite pointer at her feet .  `` How ? -- They were invited , were not they ? ''  When this was told , his name distressed her no longer .  `` If I had not persuaded Harriet into liking the man , I could have borne any thing .  I always stand up for women -- and I assure you , if you knew how Selina feels with respect to sleeping at an inn , you would not wonder at Mrs. Churchill 's making incredible exertions to avoid it .  Mr Shepherd answered for his being of a gentleman 's family , and mentioned a place ; and Anne , after the little pause which followed , added --  `` And so she is to come to us next Friday or Saturday , and the Campbells leave town in their way to Holyhead the Monday following -- as you will find from Jane 's letter .  Was not she the whole day with you ? ''  He was tolerably cheerful .  But I have injured more than herself ; and I have injured one , whose affection for me -- ( may I say it ? )  Harriet expressed herself very much as might be supposed , without reproaches , or apparent sense of ill-usage ; and yet Emma fancied there was a something of resentment , a something bordering on it in her style , which increased the desirableness of their being separate. -- It might be only her own consciousness ; but it seemed as if an angel only could have been quite without resentment under such a stroke .  I do not like crooked , twisted , blasted trees .  She left her seat , she would go ; one half of her should not be always so much wiser than the other half , or always suspecting the other of being worse than it was .  Jane Fairfax did look and move superior ; but Emma suspected she might have been glad to change feelings with Harriet , very glad to have purchased the mortification of having loved -- yes , of having loved even Mr. Elton in vain -- by the surrender of all the dangerous pleasure of knowing herself beloved by the husband of her friend .  I am sure it will all end well , and there will be no difficulties at all , to what I used to think .  Two or three times , as he trudged along , he stopped to scratch his head thoughtfully .  I shut my eyes , and would not understand you , or do you justice .  He had spoken to her with some degree of openness of Mrs Clay ; had appeared completely to see what Mrs Clay was about , and to hold her in contempt ; and yet Mrs Clay found him as agreeable as any body .  Mr. Weston is really as kind as herself .  This letter must make its way to Emma 's feelings .  So he vanish 'd from my sight ; And I pluck 'd a hollow reed , And I made a rural pen , And I stain 'd the water clear , And I wrote my happy songs Every child may joy to hear .  those dear little children .  spouted the Whale .  When I yielded , I thought it was to duty , but no duty could be called in aid here .  When he was present she had no eyes for any one else .  She had been decided in wishing for a Miss Weston .  Then they ran and told the terrible news , and all the village came to help .  `` No ; as soon as she recovered from her lying-in , for I found her near her delivery , I removed her and her child into the country , and there she remains . ''  He leaped down into the well after the other lion .  Some portion of respect for herself , however , in spite of all these demerits -- some concern for her own appearance , and a strong sense of justice by Harriet -- ( there would be no need of _compassion_ to the girl who believed herself loved by Mr. Knightley -- but justice required that she should not be made unhappy by any coldness now , ) gave Emma the resolution to sit and endure farther with calmness , with even apparent kindness. -- For her own advantage indeed , it was fit that the utmost extent of Harriet 's hopes should be enquired into ; and Harriet had done nothing to forfeit the regard and interest which had been so voluntarily formed and maintained -- or to deserve to be slighted by the person , whose counsels had never led her right. -- Rousing from reflection , therefore , and subduing her emotion , she turned to Harriet again , and , in a more inviting accent , renewed the conversation ; for as to the subject which had first introduced it , the wonderful story of Jane Fairfax , that was quite sunk and lost. -- Neither of them thought but of Mr. Knightley and themselves .  The studied indifference , insolence , and discontent of her husband gave her no pain ; and when he scolded or abused her , she was highly diverted .  It was the highest satisfaction to her to believe Captain Wentworth not in the least aware of the pain he was occasioning .  But really , I could almost venture , if Harriet would sit to me .  said the little father Jackal .  When I am quite determined as to the time , I am not at all afraid of being long unemployed .  Elinor joyfully treasured her words as she answered ,  Every friend of Miss Taylor must be glad to have her so happily married . ''  She played over every favourite song that she had been used to play to Willoughby , every air in which their voices had been oftenest joined , and sat at the instrument gazing on every line of music that he had written out for her , till her heart was so heavy that no farther sadness could be gained ; and this nourishment of grief was every day applied .  She knew it well ; and she remembered another person 's look also .  Are you in any doubt as to that ?  She soon caught his eye , and he immediately bowed , but without attempting to speak to her , or to approach Marianne , though he could not but see her ; and then continued his discourse with the same lady .  The house and grounds , and furniture , were approved , the Crofts were approved , terms , time , every thing , and every body , was right ; and Mr Shepherd 's clerks were set to work , without there having been a single preliminary difference to modify of all that `` This indenture sheweth . ''  But at last a soft , genial morning appeared ; such as might tempt the daughter 's wishes and the mother 's confidence ; and Marianne , leaning on Elinor 's arm , was authorised to walk as long as she could without fatigue , in the lane before the house .  Elinor saw , and pitied her for , the neglect of abilities which education might have rendered so respectable ; but she saw , with less tenderness of feeling , the thorough want of delicacy , of rectitude , and integrity of mind , which her attentions , her assiduities , her flatteries at the Park betrayed ; and she could have no lasting satisfaction in the company of a person who joined insincerity with ignorance ; whose want of instruction prevented their meeting in conversation on terms of equality , and whose conduct toward others made every shew of attention and deference towards herself perfectly valueless .  Mr. Woodhouse could never allow for Mr. Knightley 's claims on his brother , or any body 's claims on Isabella , except his own .  On ascending the stairs , the Miss Dashwoods found so many people before them in the room , that there was not a person at liberty to tend to their orders ; and they were obliged to wait .  `` Very . ''  They walked off , followed in half a minute by Mr. Knightley .  You see , it was the most exciting moment ever was in the Green Forest .  I do think he must have been sent for about money matters , for what else can it be ?  Anne was conscious of not doing it so well as Lady Russell .  I give you notice that as I find your son , so I shall judge of him. -- I am no flatterer . ''  The prospect of four thousand a-year , in addition to his present income , besides the remaining half of his own mother 's fortune , warmed his heart , and made him feel capable of generosity. -- `` Yes , he would give them three thousand pounds : it would be liberal and handsome !  Mrs. Dashwood was sorry for what she had said ; but it gave Elinor pleasure , as it produced a reply from Marianne so expressive of confidence in Willoughby and knowledge of his intentions .  An effort even yet lighter might have made her their friend .  to be a second time the dupe of her misconceptions and flattery .  She was persuaded by Lady Russell 's countenance that she had seen him .  Blacky is a schemer !  He had run even faster than Farmer Brown 's boy , and had hidden in the most lonely place he could find in the very deepest part of the Green Forest .  I wonder if he knows how happy he is !  `` Certainly -- and I think I may afford to give them five hundred pounds a-piece .  `` Four months ! -- and yet you loved him ! ''  They will read together .  Now there is no one to regard them .  A little kingdom I possess , Where thoughts and feelings dwell , And very hard I find the task Of governing it well ; For passion tempts and troubles me , A wayward will misleads , And selfishness its shadow casts On all my words and deeds .  at three-and-twenty to be the king of his company -- the great man -- the practised politician , who is to read every body 's character , and make every body 's talents conduce to the display of his own superiority ; to be dispensing his flatteries around , that he may make all appear like fools compared with himself !  Mr. Willoughby is unfathomable !  said the little Jackal .  here is Winthrop .  I should like to know his present opinion , as to the probability of the event he has been in dread of ; whether he considers the danger to be lessening or not . ''  `` Of ONE thing , my dear sister , '' kindly taking her hand , and speaking in an awful whisper , -- '' I may assure you ; -- and I WILL do it , because I know it must gratify you .  I have no reason to think ill of her -- not the least -- except that such extreme and perpetual cautiousness of word and manner , such a dread of giving a distinct idea about any body , is apt to suggest suspicions of there being something to conceal . ''  I condition for nothing else ; but without music , life would be a blank to me . ' ''  Then they came over the village square , and the people looked up and saw them .  Marianne was afraid of offending , and said no more on the subject ; but the kind of approbation which Elinor described as excited in him by the drawings of other people , was very far from that rapturous delight , which , in her opinion , could alone be called taste .  Mr Elliot , raised by his marriage to great affluence , and disposed to every gratification of pleasure and vanity which could be commanded without involving himself , ( for with all his self-indulgence he had become a prudent man ) , and beginning to be rich , just as his friend ought to have found himself to be poor , seemed to have had no concern at all for that friend 's probable finances , but , on the contrary , had been prompting and encouraging expenses which could end only in ruin ; and the Smiths accordingly had been ruined .  I am glad I was not a week later then . ''  Now , after a while , he began to find out that this was not true , and it made him angry .  And by came an angel , who had a bright key , And he opened the coffins , and let them all free ; Then down a green plain , leaping , laughing , they run , And wash in a river , and shine in the sun .  `` Really ?  Never again did the dear mother have to do any hard work , and she had pretty things about her all the rest of her life .  interrupted the little Jackal ; `` I never can see through it , if you go on like that , with a long story .  It is a retired place .  At any rate I shall expect you to-morrow .  When he was again in their company , he could not help remembering what he had seen ; nor could he avoid observations which , unless it were like Cowper and his fire at twilight ,  Anne fully submitted , in silent , deep mortification .  `` We are all unanimous in that wish , I suppose , '' said Elinor , `` in spite of the insufficiency of wealth . ''  Emma thanked him , but could not allow of his disappointing his friend on their account ; her father was sure of his rubber .  Who do you think is here ? -- Miss Woodhouse and Miss Smith ; so kind as to call to hear the new pianoforte .  One accompaniment to her song took her agreeably by surprize -- a second , slightly but correctly taken by Frank Churchill .  `` We have thought of a way which will be possible , '' they said , `` if only you can manage to keep still long enough .  CHAPTER 20  Domestic happiness is out of the question .  One of them moved now , and quicker than a wink had scooped one of those foolish fish out on to the bank .  She was afterwards looking for her shawl -- Frank Churchill was looking also -- it was growing dusk , and the room was in confusion ; and how they parted , Mr. Knightley could not tell .  `` I am sure you were of use to me , '' cried Emma .  I do not ask for any crown But that which all may win , Nor seek to conquer any world , Except the one within .  `` Yes , -- I left London this morning at eight o'clock , and the only ten minutes I have spent out of my chaise since that time procured me a nuncheon at Marlborough . ''  Let us be discreet -- quite on our good behaviour. -- Hush ! -- You remember those lines -- I forget the poem at this moment :  She believed the regard to be mutual ; but she required greater certainty of it to make Marianne 's conviction of their attachment agreeable to her .  But the little dog was so used to being petted that he only jumped up on his master , and tried to kiss his hand .  I could get the nicest house in world for you , next door to ours , in Hanover-square .  When he came to Miss Woodhouse , he was obliged to read the whole of it aloud -- all that related to her , with a smile ; a look ; a shake of the head ; a word or two of assent , or disapprobation ; or merely of love , as the subject required ; concluding , however , seriously , and , after steady reflection , thus --  `` If I am not deceived by the uncertainty , the partiality of tender recollection , there is a very strong resemblance between them , as well in mind as person .  She would be respectable and happy ; and Emma admitted her to be the luckiest creature in the world , to have created so steady and persevering an affection in such a man ; -- or , if not quite the luckiest , to yield only to herself .  While he spoke , Emma 's mind was most busy , and , with all the wonderful velocity of thought , had been able -- and yet without losing a word -- to catch and comprehend the exact truth of the whole ; to see that Harriet 's hopes had been entirely groundless , a mistake , a delusion , as complete a delusion as any of her own -- that Harriet was nothing ; that she was every thing herself ; that what she had been saying relative to Harriet had been all taken as the language of her own feelings ; and that her agitation , her doubts , her reluctance , her discouragement , had been all received as discouragement from herself. -- And not only was there time for these convictions , with all their glow of attendant happiness ; there was time also to rejoice that Harriet 's secret had not escaped her , and to resolve that it need not , and should not. -- It was all the service she could now render her poor friend ; for as to any of that heroism of sentiment which might have prompted her to entreat him to transfer his affection from herself to Harriet , as infinitely the most worthy of the two -- or even the more simple sublimity of resolving to refuse him at once and for ever , without vouchsafing any motive , because he could not marry them both , Emma had it not .  Her tears fell abundantly -- but her grief was so truly artless , that no dignity could have made it more respectable in Emma 's eyes -- and she listened to her and tried to console her with all her heart and understanding -- really for the time convinced that Harriet was the superior creature of the two -- and that to resemble her would be more for her own welfare and happiness than all that genius or intelligence could do .  The belief of being prudent , and self-denying , principally for his advantage , was her chief consolation , under the misery of a parting , a final parting ; and every consolation was required , for she had to encounter all the additional pain of opinions , on his side , totally unconvinced and unbending , and of his feeling himself ill used by so forced a relinquishment .  `` How often , when you were a girl , have you said to me , with one of your saucy looks -- `Mr. Knightley , I am going to do so-and-so ; papa says I may , or I have Miss Taylor 's leave ' -- something which , you knew , I did not approve .  Ladies and gentlemen , I am ordered by Miss Woodhouse ( who , wherever she is , presides ) to say , that she desires to know what you are all thinking of ? ''  Sweet joy befall thee !  Not a soul of all my relations know of it but Anne , and I never should have mentioned it to you , if I had not felt the greatest dependence in the world upon your secrecy ; and I really thought my behaviour in asking so many questions about Mrs. Ferrars must seem so odd , that it ought to be explained .  The comfort , the freedom , the gaiety of the room was over , hushed into cold composure , determined silence , or insipid talk , to meet the heartless elegance of her father and sister .  The little Jackal stopped and looked .  CHAPTER 2  Her nerves were under continual irritation and suffering ; and by the ten days ' end , her nephew 's letter to Randalls communicated a change of plan .  I have no such scruples , and I am sure I could put up with every unpleasantness of that kind with very little effort . ''  There was once a shepherd-boy who kept his flock at a little distance from the village .  `` How surprised you will be , Willoughby , on receiving this ; and I think you will feel something more than surprise , when you know that I am in town .  The looking over his letter again , in replying to it , had such a softening tendency , that it was particularly necessary to brace her up with a few decisive expressions ; and she was so very much concerned at the idea of making him unhappy , and thought so much of what his mother and sisters would think and say , and was so anxious that they should not fancy her ungrateful , that Emma believed if the young man had come in her way at that moment , he would have been accepted after all .  from Captain Harville , but from him not a word , nor a look !  Mrs Smith made no reply ; but when she was leaving her said , and with an expression half serious , half arch , `` Well , I heartily wish your concert may answer ; and do not fail me to-morrow if you can come ; for I begin to have a foreboding that I may not have many more visits from you . ''  Mr. Weston had accompanied her to Mrs. Bates 's , and gone through his share of this essential attention most handsomely ; but she having then induced Miss Fairfax to join her in an airing , was now returned with much more to say , and much more to say with satisfaction , than a quarter of an hour spent in Mrs. Bates 's parlour , with all the encumbrance of awkward feelings , could have afforded .  Even as he heard this , the prince saw Suliman on the steps of the palace , speaking to the people .  Mrs. Weston looked up , afraid to believe ; but Emma 's countenance was as steady as her words .  Nothing could be more expressive of attachment to them all , than Willoughby 's behaviour .  And the dried cherries too !  The real circumstances of this pathetic piece of family history were , that the Musgroves had had the ill fortune of a very troublesome , hopeless son ; and the good fortune to lose him before he reached his twentieth year ; that he had been sent to sea because he was stupid and unmanageable on shore ; that he had been very little cared for at any time by his family , though quite as much as he deserved ; seldom heard of , and scarcely at all regretted , when the intelligence of his death abroad had worked its way to Uppercross , two years before .  Dare not say that man forgets sooner than woman , that his love has an earlier death .  My daughter and I are both highly sensible of your goodness , and have the greatest satisfaction in seeing you at Hartfield . ''  `` Do you think so ? ''  how concerned Sir John and my daughters will be when they hear it !  Do n't we all know that it must be a match , that they were over head and ears in love with each other from the first moment they met ?  `` That is to say , '' cried Marianne contemptuously , `` he has told you , that in the East Indies the climate is hot , and the mosquitoes are troublesome . ''  `` I do not understand what you mean by `success , ' '' said Mr. Knightley .  Poor soul !  But he laughed so heartily at the recollection , that Emma could not help saying ,  Two evenings after that , when Margery was called in from her first ramble in the fields , she found the postman at the door .  `` He 'll try it again to-morrow morning , '' said Little Joe .  Marianne would have thought herself very inexcusable had she been able to sleep at all the first night after parting from Willoughby .  They speedily discovered that their enjoyment of dancing and music was mutual , and that it arose from a general conformity of judgment in all that related to either .  Your description of Mrs. Churchill made me think of them directly .  said his Mammy .  Now there was some one else with a great deal of curiosity also .  She was ready to tell every thing in her power , but on this subject questions were vain .  However , the Brahmin argued so hard that at last the Tiger agreed to wait and ask the first five whom they should meet , whether it was fair for him to eat the Brahmin , and to abide by their decision .  At this moment , an ingenious and animating suspicion entering Emma 's brain with regard to Jane Fairfax , this charming Mr. Dixon , and the not going to Ireland , she said , with the insidious design of farther discovery ,  Make him the best prince in the world , I beg you ! ''  The complaints and lamentations which politeness had hitherto restrained , now burst forth universally ; and they all agreed again and again how provoking it was to be so disappointed .  In Bond Street especially , where much of their business lay , her eyes were in constant inquiry ; and in whatever shop the party were engaged , her mind was equally abstracted from every thing actually before them , from all that interested and occupied the others .  Mrs. Weston was disengaged and Emma began again -- '' Mr. Frank Churchill writes one of the best gentleman 's hands I ever saw . ''  He seems an excellent man ; and I think him uncommonly pleasing . ''  `` I can have no pleasure while I see you in this state . ''  In rushed Piccola sweet , half wild : Never was seen such a joyful child .  By and by , war broke out between the people of David 's country and a people that lived near at hand ; these men were called Philistines , and the people of David 's country were named Israelites .  Sure enough , Peter Rabbit was there on one side of the Smiling Pool , making faces at Reddy Fox , who was on the other side , which , of course , was not at all nice of Peter .  `` Can not you , my dear Emma -- can not you form a guess as to what you are to hear ? ''  `` Oh yes !  Of course he upset the pail , but he did n't mind a little thing like that .  Some doubts always lingered in her mind when they parted , which could only be removed by another half hour 's discourse with himself .  `` I 've been taught a lesson that I shall not easily forget .  It was filled with little packages , all with printed labels ; and in the packages , of course , were seeds .  He did n't see the old Alligator , but he thought to himself , `` I think I 'll not take any chances . ''  Mrs. Weston had been speaking to her at the same moment .  Emma looked at her , quite unable to speak .  He licked his lips hungrily as he spoke .  My blindness to what was going on , led me to act by them in a way that I must always be ashamed of , and I was very foolishly tempted to say and do many things which may well lay me open to unpleasant conjectures , but I have no other reason to regret that I was not in the secret earlier . ''  The world will never get over your loss , '' cruelly sneered the Diamond .  Take your own . ''  no ; cautious as a minister of state .  `` You 're pretty smart , Mr .  From thus listening and thinking , she was roused by a whisper of Mrs Musgrove 's who , overcome by fond regrets , could not help saying --  To amuse her , and be agreeable in her eyes , seemed all that he cared for -- and Emma , glad to be enlivened , not sorry to be flattered , was gay and easy too , and gave him all the friendly encouragement , the admission to be gallant , which she had ever given in the first and most animating period of their acquaintance ; but which now , in her own estimation , meant nothing , though in the judgment of most people looking on it must have had such an appearance as no English word but flirtation could very well describe .  `` Aye , aye , I see how it will be , '' said Sir John , `` I see how it will be .  Since he had neglected to do it on first coming to the estate , their quitting his house might be looked on as the most suitable period for its accomplishment .  You see , Farmer Brown 's boy is learning to be something of a philosopher , one of those people who accept bad things cheerfully and right away see how they are better than they might have been .  Know your own happiness .  If Louisa recovered , it would all be well again .  But , whatever might really be its limits , it was enough , when perceived by his sister , to make her uneasy , and at the same time , ( which was still more common , ) to make her uncivil .  So she thought at first ; -- but a little consideration convinced her that every thing need not be put off .  Presently , however , a happy fancy came to him .  Here are seven of you , besides myself , ( who , she is pleased to say , am very entertaining already , ) and she only demands from each of you either one thing very clever , be it prose or verse , original or repeated -- or two things moderately clever -- or three things very dull indeed , and she engages to laugh heartily at them all . ''  CHAPTER X  `` I was with Mr. Cole on business an hour and a half ago .  This is always the way with him !  yes ; certainly . ''  I have nothing to do with William 's wants , but it really is of very great importance that _I_ should see Knightley to-day ; and it becomes a matter , therefore , of very serious inconvenience that I should have had this hot walk to no purpose . ''  Emma 's attempts to stop her father had been vain ; and when he had reached such a point as this , she could not wonder at her brother-in-law 's breaking out .  `` I have never had a high opinion of Frank Churchill. -- I can suppose , however , that I may have underrated him .  So ended all danger to Anne of meeting Captain Wentworth at Kellynch Hall , or of seeing him in company with her friend .  `` Really , '' he said , `` you do not live well at all ; you should see how I live !  Selina , who is mild almost to a fault , bore with them much better . ''  He stopped to listen .  `Miss Woodhouse calls me the child of good fortune . '  I have been thinking whether you had not better remain in the carriage with her , while I go in and break it to Mr and Mrs Musgrove .  `` But I always thought I SHOULD .  You pass it over very handsomely -- but you were perfectly right . ''  Charles joins me in love , and everything proper .  Frank Churchill seemed to have been on the watch ; and though he did not say much , his eyes declared that he meant to have a delightful evening .  Oh the dismal care That shakes the blossoms of my hoary hair ! ''  `` That 's a very fine looking trout .  I can not believe his prospects so blighted for ever .  This is just what Perry said .  And the worst part of it all was that all his neighbors of the Green Forest and a whole lot from the Green Meadows and the Smiling Pool were also there to see it .  The usefulness of her staying !  Chapter 20  The picture which she had then drawn of the privations of the approaching winter , had proved erroneous ; no friends had deserted them , no pleasures had been lost. -- But her present forebodings she feared would experience no similar contradiction .  To a degree , I could contradict this instantly ; but , when I began to reflect that others might have felt the same -- her own family , nay , perhaps herself -- I was no longer at my own disposal .  cried Marianne , her eyes sparkling with animation , and her cheeks glowing with the delight of such imaginary happiness .  Pass us , if you please , Mr. Churchill .  `` I hope I shall soon have the pleasure of introducing my son to you , '' said Mr. Weston .  And at last the people fell on their knees and wept and cried in despair , for they saw starvation and death in the fields .  There , on the bank beside the little pool , were the heads of three trout .  What do you imagine his age to be ? ''  I never saw Lucy in such a rage in my life .  I am sure , a month ago , I had no more idea myself ! -- The strangest things do take place ! ''  What brother on earth would do half so much for his sisters , even if REALLY his sisters !  At Hartfield , you have had very good specimens of well educated , well bred men .  `` Yes , '' said the little Jackal .  `` So you have been settling that I should marry Jane Fairfax ? ''  I grant you , that any of them but Charles would be a very shocking match for Henrietta , and indeed it could not be ; he is the only one that could be possible ; but he is a very good-natured , good sort of a fellow ; and whenever Winthrop comes into his hands , he will make a different sort of place of it , and live in a very different sort of way ; and with that property , he will never be a contemptible man -- good , freehold property .  `` God save you , '' said the lion .  Miss Bates 's powerful , argumentative mind might have strengthened yours . ''  She believed every body found his manners pleasing . ''  `` I declare , Charles , I never heard him mention Anne twice all the time I was there .  `` Oh !  Poor little dears , how glad they will be to come .  you have found us out at last , have you , in our seclusion ? -- I was this moment telling Jane , I thought you would begin to be impatient for tidings of us . ''  At that instant , the white dove vanished , and Prince Cherry stood there , as handsome and charming as ever , and with a look of kindness and modesty in his eyes which had never been there before .  At that moment the baby 's sister came to the princess and said , `` Shall I go and find thee a nurse from the Hebrew women , so that she may nurse the child for thee ? ''  It is not a state to be safely entered into with doubtful feelings , with half a heart .  `` Wolf !  `` For the present , the whole affair was to be completely a secret .  At last , one day he was in such a hurry that he turned the key before the door was quite latched , which , of course , did n't lock it at all .  Lady Middleton was ashamed of doing nothing before them , and the flattery which Lucy was proud to think of and administer at other times , she feared they would despise her for offering .  Captain Benwick had been seen flying by their house , with a countenance which showed something to be wrong ; and they had set off immediately , informed and directed as they passed , towards the spot .  I am very happy .  It was all my doing , I know .  They then talked on for a few minutes longer without her catching a syllable , when another lucky stop in Marianne 's performance brought her these words in the Colonel 's calm voice , --  `` Could not she see that we wanted her gone ! -- how teazing to Edward ! ''  You will all be going soon I suppose ; the whole party breaking up .  I always say , we are quite blessed in our neighbours. -- My dear sir , if there is one thing my mother loves better than another , it is pork -- a roast loin of pork -- ''  His good friend Perry , too , whom he had spoken to on the subject , did not at present recollect any thing of the riddle kind ; but he had desired Perry to be upon the watch , and as he went about so much , something , he thought , might come from that quarter .  One , two , three , came out plump and fluffy ; but when the fourth shell broke , out came a little half-chick !  Their mother had nothing , and their father only seven thousand pounds in his own disposal ; for the remaining moiety of his first wife 's fortune was also secured to her child , and he had only a life-interest in it .  We are very proud of the children , are not we , papa ?  Would he have been less gay or less happy in the smiles of your sister ?  `` No , indeed ! ''  Choose you a man , and let him come down to me .  She is nothing to me , compared with you ; '' and she was in full time to hear her father say , `` My dear madam , this must not be .  The maid would come and say , `` How shall I do this ? ''  That will just do for me , you know .  That evening the palace was all trimmed with the most beautiful flowers you can imagine , and rows and rows of little silver bells , that tinkled when the wind blew in , and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of wax candles , that shone like tiny stars .  That is one thing about habits , -- you always take them with you wherever you go .  As it was impossible , however , now to prevent their coming , Lady Middleton resigned herself to the idea of it , with all the philosophy of a well-bred woman , contenting herself with merely giving her husband a gentle reprimand on the subject five or six times every day .  `` Why , their visit is but just begun ! ''  `` I am sorry to say , ma'am , in a most unhappy rupture : -- Edward is dismissed for ever from his mother 's notice .  Little Joe Otter and Buster Bear were watching him and taking the greatest care to keep out of his sight .  Indeed , Mrs Harville and I quite agree that we love her the better for having nursed her .  Then he stirred up the mud until the water was so dirty that Buster could n't have seen a fish right under his nose .  It was impossible for her to enter on such a subject ; and yet , after a pause , feeling the necessity of speaking , and having not the smallest wish for a total change , she only deviated so far as to say --  A silver voice spoke in his ear : `` The king of the land has a right to do good , but not evil ; you have been guilty of bad temper and of cruelty to-day ; see that you do better to-morrow . ''  It was not very flattering to Miss Campbell ; but she really did not seem to feel it . ''  You do not mean it ? ''  The danger would have been of my wearying you .  The following day brought news from Richmond to throw every thing else into the background .  `` Look at me ! ''  Their neighbors look up to them and are forever running to them for advice , and they are very much respected .  At first sight , his address is certainly not striking ; and his person can hardly be called handsome , till the expression of his eyes , which are uncommonly good , and the general sweetness of his countenance , is perceived .  Do put up your horse at the Crown , and come in . ''  I see her instrument is open . ''  Mrs. Weston 's friends were all made happy by her safety ; and if the satisfaction of her well-doing could be increased to Emma , it was by knowing her to be the mother of a little girl .  He has a wife and family to maintain , and is not to be giving away his time .  I could not bear that she should be frightened from the visit by such nonsense .  `` What magnificent orders would travel from this family to London , '' said Edward , `` in such an event !  `` Very pretty , sir , upon my word ; to send me on here , to be an encumbrance to my friends , so long before you vouchsafe to come ! -- But you knew what a dutiful creature you had to deal with .  In all probability she was at this very time waited for there ; and Mr. Knightley might be preserved from sinking deeper in aggression towards Mr. Elton , if not towards William Larkins .  I have always been blessed with excellent health , and no climate disagrees with me .  Elinor first spoke .  She saw no reason against their being happy .  How could he answer it to himself to rob his child , and his only child too , of so large a sum ?  We have neither of us any thing to tell ; you , because you do not communicate , and I , because I conceal nothing . ''  `` Aye , that will be much best , '' said Harriet , quite satisfied , `` I should not at all like to have it sent to Mrs .  `` I am sure I should have seen it in a moment , if Mrs. Ferrars had took a dislike to me .  The Eltons walked together ; Mr. Knightley took charge of Miss Bates and Jane ; and Emma and Harriet belonged to Frank Churchill .  What Mr. Elton had learned from the ostler on the subject , being the accumulation of the ostler 's own knowledge , and the knowledge of the servants at Randalls , was , that a messenger had come over from Richmond soon after the return of the party from Box Hill -- which messenger , however , had been no more than was expected ; and that Mr. Churchill had sent his nephew a few lines , containing , upon the whole , a tolerable account of Mrs. Churchill , and only wishing him not to delay coming back beyond the next morning early ; but that Mr. Frank Churchill having resolved to go home directly , without waiting at all , and his horse seeming to have got a cold , Tom had been sent off immediately for the Crown chaise , and the ostler had stood out and seen it pass by , the boy going a good pace , and driving very steady .  cried Marianne .  How Anne 's more rigid requisitions might have been taken is of little consequence .  With the Musgroves , there was the happy chat of perfect ease ; with Captain Harville , the kind-hearted intercourse of brother and sister ; with Lady Russell , attempts at conversation , which a delicious consciousness cut short ; with Admiral and Mrs Croft , everything of peculiar cordiality and fervent interest , which the same consciousness sought to conceal ; and with Captain Wentworth , some moments of communications continually occurring , and always the hope of more , and always the knowledge of his being there .  Pretty , pretty robin !  It was now her darling object .  `` Yes , '' said Death ; and the little Nightingale bought the Emperor's sceptre for another song .  What a pity it is that Mr. Weston ever thought of her ! ''  She wanted more vigorous measures , a more complete reformation , a quicker release from debt , a much higher tone of indifference for everything but justice and equity .  I can not bear to imagine any reluctance on his side ; but I am sure there is a great wish on the Churchills ' to keep him to themselves .  They had been all in lodgings together .  I was sure that would come out , if it was so .  `` Oh , little Half-Chick , '' said the Fire , `` you are just in time to save me .  Only , she had seen so little of flowers that she did not know what all the names meant .  `` Oh , does it , indeed ? ''  Lady Russell 's had no success at all : could not be put up with , were not to be borne .  Mr. John Knightley looked as if he did not comprehend the pleasure , but said only , coolly ,  When the stars threw down their spears , And watered heaven with their tears , Did he smile his work to see ?  It melted , and melted , and as it melted it ran down Epaminondas ' forehead ; then it ran over his face , and in his ears , and down his neck .  `` `Smallridge ! '  Mr. Knightley soon saw that he had lost his moment , and that not another syllable of communication could rest with him .  repeated Miss Steele , whose ear had caught those words by a sudden pause in Marianne 's music. -- `` Oh , they are talking of their favourite beaux , I dare say . ''  Weston and Cole will be there too ; but one is apt to speak only of those who lead. -- I fancy Mr. E. and Knightley have every thing their own way . ''  About the third or fourth morning after their being thus resettled in Berkeley Street , Mrs. Jennings , on returning from her ordinary visit to Mrs. Palmer , entered the drawing-room , where Elinor was sitting by herself , with an air of such hurrying importance as prepared her to hear something wonderful ; and giving her time only to form that idea , began directly to justify it , by saying ,  `` I will not ask your opinion of it as a composition , '' said Edward. -- '' For worlds would not I have had a letter of hers seen by YOU in former days. -- In a sister it is bad enough , but in a wife ! -- how I have blushed over the pages of her writing ! -- and I believe I may say that since the first half year of our foolish -- business -- this is the only letter I ever received from her , of which the substance made me any amends for the defect of the style . ''  `` There is no necessity for my calling this morning , '' said the young man ; `` another day would do as well ; but there was that degree of acquaintance at Weymouth which -- ''  Dig for it , if you wish it . ''  Even the smooth surface of family-union seems worth preserving , though there may be nothing durable beneath .  As Frank Churchill 's arrival had succeeded Mr. Elton 's engagement in the conversation of Highbury , as the latest interest had entirely borne down the first , so now upon Frank Churchill 's disappearance , Mr. Elton 's concerns were assuming the most irresistible form. -- His wedding-day was named .  Mrs. John Dashwood had so much confidence in her husband 's judgment , that she waited the very next day both on Mrs. Jennings and her daughter ; and her confidence was rewarded by finding even the former , even the woman with whom her sisters were staying , by no means unworthy her notice ; and as for Lady Middleton , she found her one of the most charming women in the world !  This was a pleasure which perhaps the whole day 's visit might not afford , which certainly did not belong to the present half-hour ; but the very sight of Mrs. Weston , her smile , her touch , her voice was grateful to Emma , and she determined to think as little as possible of Mr. Elton 's oddities , or of any thing else unpleasant , and enjoy all that was enjoyable to the utmost .  And , pray , who is Charles Hayter ?  `` Ah !  Emma felt that her own note had deserved something better ; but it was impossible to quarrel with words , whose tremulous inequality shewed indisposition so plainly , and she thought only of how she might best counteract this unwillingness to be seen or assisted .  With the exception , perhaps , of Admiral and Mrs Croft , who seemed particularly attached and happy , ( Anne could allow no other exceptions even among the married couples ) , there could have been no two hearts so open , no tastes so similar , no feelings so in unison , no countenances so beloved .  `` You owe me no apologies ; and every body to whom you might be supposed to owe them , is so perfectly satisfied , so delighted even -- ''  She blushed at this hint ; but it was even visibly gratifying to her ; and after a ten minutes ' interval of earnest thought , she came to her sister again , and said with great good humour , `` Perhaps , Elinor , it WAS rather ill-judged in me to go to Allenham ; but Mr. Willoughby wanted particularly to shew me the place ; and it is a charming house , I assure you. -- There is one remarkably pretty sitting room up stairs ; of a nice comfortable size for constant use , and with modern furniture it would be delightful .  The ground covered with snow , and the atmosphere in that unsettled state between frost and thaw , which is of all others the most unfriendly for exercise , every morning beginning in rain or snow , and every evening setting in to freeze , she was for many days a most honourable prisoner .  What would you do yourself ? ''  John Knightley 's being a lawyer is very inconvenient. -- Poor Isabella ! -- she is sadly taken away from us all ! -- and how sorry she will be when she comes , not to see Miss Taylor here ! ''  He was preparing only to bow and pass on , but her gentle `` How do you do ? ''  The very circumstance , in its unpleasantest form , which they would each have been most anxious to avoid , had fallen on them. -- They were not only all three together , but were together without the relief of any other person .  I do admire your patriotism .  Everybody was wanting to visit them .  the letter had much better be all your own .  They will come and stand by my chair , and say , `Grandpapa , can you give me a bit of string ? '  The listener 's proverbial fate was not absolutely hers ; she had heard no evil of herself , but she had heard a great deal of very painful import .  I do n't know who made that footprint , but it certainly could n't have been a Bear .  She could not keep her appointment punctually , however ; the weather was unfavourable , and she had grieved over the rain on her friends ' account , and felt it very much on her own , before she was able to attempt the walk .  `` I am going to Kingston .  For two whole weeks the little Jackal kept away from the river .  said he : `` One who sets reason up for judge Of our most holy mystery . ''  A bit farther on , the Half-Chick came to a Fire , which was smothered in damp sticks and in great distress .  `` He means that this land has not been ploughed before ; it will be hard to turn the soil , and one horse could not pull the plough , '' said her father .  He bestowed his hearty approbation however on their species of house .  Almost he hoped he should not find the man , and could believe that he had dreamed the angel vision .  He had no idea of me .  Miss Hamilton , now Mrs Smith , had shewn her kindness in one of those periods of her life when it had been most valuable .  `` There we differ , Mary , '' said Anne .  `` I am afraid , '' said he , composing his features , `` I am very much afraid , my dear Emma , that you will not smile when you hear it . ''  It must be done directly ; it must be done in London ; the order must go through the hands of some intelligent person whose taste could be depended on ; and Isabella , the usual doer of all commissions , must not be applied to , because it was December , and Mr. Woodhouse could not bear the idea of her stirring out of her house in the fogs of December .  You will not regard being tired .  I was very well yesterday ; nothing at all the matter with me till this morning .  They meant to take a long drive this morning ; perhaps we may hail them from some of these hills .  Elinor remembered what Robert had told her in Harley Street , of his opinion of what his own mediation in his brother 's affairs might have done , if applied to in time .  Mrs. Dashwood again assured him that no alteration of the kind should be attempted .  Resentment could not have been more plainly spoken than in a civility to her father , from which she was so pointedly excluded .  _We_ have carriages to fetch and convey her home , and _we_ live in a style which could not make the addition of Jane Fairfax , at any time , the least inconvenient. -- I should be extremely displeased if Wright were to send us up such a dinner , as could make me regret having asked _more_ than Jane Fairfax to partake of it .  The king on the throne looked at him .  The old Alligator , lying low in the mud and weeds , heard this , and he thought , `` Pooh !  She examined them very closely , so that she might know a radish next time .  It was not in his calmness that she read his comparative difference .  Quickly the little door opened and the acorn rolled inside .  She must abide by the evil of having refused him , whatever it may be ; and as to the refusal itself , I will not pretend to say that I might not influence her a little ; but I assure you there was very little for me or for any body to do .  She played and sang ; -- and drew in almost every style ; but steadiness had always been wanting ; and in nothing had she approached the degree of excellence which she would have been glad to command , and ought not to have failed of .  If they are anxious to see you _happily_ married , here is a man whose amiable character gives every assurance of it ; -- if they wish to have you settled in the same country and circle which they have chosen to place you in , here it will be accomplished ; and if their only object is that you should , in the common phrase , be _well_ married , here is the comfortable fortune , the respectable establishment , the rise in the world which must satisfy them . ''  `` Why , really , dear Emma , I say that he is so very much occupied by the idea of _not_ being in love with her , that I should not wonder if it were to end in his being so at last .  They attempted , therefore , likewise , to excuse themselves ; the weather was uncertain , and not likely to be good .  Lady Russell , in spite of all her former transgressions , he could now value from his heart .  Elinor was not inclined , after a little observation , to give him credit for being so genuinely and unaffectedly ill-natured or ill-bred as he wished to appear .  `` Ay , you will make conquests enough , I dare say , one way or other .  If they are not put off , he can not stir .  `` But I , '' he soon added , `` who have had no such charm thrown over my senses , must still see , hear , and remember .  I see the difference plain enough .  It was soon generally agreed that Tuesday should be the day ; Charles only reserving the advantage of still teasing his wife , by persisting that he would go to the play to-morrow if nobody else would .  If I was wrong in yielding to persuasion once , remember that it was to persuasion exerted on the side of safety , not of risk .  `` Dear Mrs. Weston , how could you think of such a thing ? -- Mr .  And I hope she is well . ''  and I always thought you meant it . ''  All his caution was spent in being secured of the real amount of her fortune , before he committed himself .  `` But , Brother Tiger , '' said the Brahmin , `` you promised you would not .  As soon as he could , he began to talk to her of Lyme , wanting to compare opinions respecting the place , but especially wanting to speak of the circumstance of their happening to be guests in the same inn at the same time ; to give his own route , understand something of hers , and regret that he should have lost such an opportunity of paying his respects to her .  Oh , no !  And so Patty told me , and I was excessively shocked indeed !  Anne understood it .  It is not that I did not think of it , or desire it , as what could alone crown all my other success ; but I was proud , too proud to ask again .  As she sat one morning , looking forward to exactly such a close of the present day , a note was brought from Mrs. Goddard , requesting , in most respectful terms , to be allowed to bring Miss Smith with her ; a most welcome request : for Miss Smith was a girl of seventeen , whom Emma knew very well by sight , and had long felt an interest in , on account of her beauty .  Captain Weston , who had been considered , especially by the Churchills , as making such an amazing match , was proved to have much the worst of the bargain ; for when his wife died , after a three years ' marriage , he was rather a poorer man than at first , and with a child to maintain .  I like him very well . ''  As he crouched at the keeper 's feet , a voice said , `` Good actions never go unrewarded ! ''  My father depends on it .  she was a dear old Asp to me .  and grinned .  But Buster is a splendid climber , especially when the tree is big and stout as this one was , and now he went up after Chatterer , growling angrily .  The slightest mention of anything relative to Willoughby overpowered her in an instant ; and though her family were most anxiously attentive to her comfort , it was impossible for them , if they spoke at all , to keep clear of every subject which her feelings connected with him .  And to what part of it ? ''  But could it be so ?  Astonished and shocked at so unlover-like a speech , she was almost ready to cry out , `` Lord !  `` I think it 's time to go home , now , '' he said ; `` do n't you ? ''  said the courtier .  It can not be long , I think , before she comes . ''  Finis  She hesitated a moment , and then replied , `` With you , if you will ask me . ''  as to all that , of course nothing can be thought of yet .  He might not be aware of the inroads on domestic peace to be occasioned by no housekeeper 's room , or a bad butler 's pantry , but no doubt he did perfectly feel that Enscombe could not make him happy , and that whenever he were attached , he would willingly give up much of wealth to be allowed an early establishment .  in places you see it is dreadfully dirty ; and the wainscot is more yellow and forlorn than any thing I could have imagined . ''  It had been a very happy fortnight , and forlorn must be the sinking from it into the common course of Hartfield days .  I have something to communicate that will astonish you not a little .  I really could not help exclaiming !  Must go and speak to Dr. and Mrs. Hughes for a moment. -- How do you do ?  Somehow , it seemed to Buster as if the Brook were laughing at him .  They combated the point some time longer in the same way ; Emma rather gaining ground over the mind of her friend ; for Mrs. Weston was the most used of the two to yield ; till a little bustle in the room shewed them that tea was over , and the instrument in preparation ; -- and at the same moment Mr. Cole approaching to entreat Miss Woodhouse would do them the honour of trying it .  If it can be contrived to be at the Crown , papa , it will be very convenient for the horses .  THE LITTLE COTYLEDONS This is another story about Margery 's garden .  `` He 's somewhere up the Laughing Brook .  `` In that respect how unlike dear Mrs. Elton , who wants to be wiser and wittier than all the world !  It has not made him happy .  `` Ay , my dear , I 'll warrant you we do .  `` He was afraid they should have a very bad drive .  There could be no doubt of his being a sensible man .  `` Caw , caw , caw ! ''  `` I have not the least wish for it , I thank you . ''  If you only hope to have your assertion contradicted , as I must suppose to be the case , you ought to recollect that I am the last person in the world to do it .  Kind Mr Alligator !  You have perhaps been misinformed , or purposely deceived , in something concerning me , which may have lowered me in your opinion .  He stood as opposed to Captain Wentworth , in all his own unwelcome obtrusiveness ; and the evil of his attentions last night , the irremediable mischief he might have done , was considered with sensations unqualified , unperplexed .  So unlike what a man should be ! -- None of that upright integrity , that strict adherence to truth and principle , that disdain of trick and littleness , which a man should display in every transaction of his life . ''  `` Oh , sing again , little Nightingale , '' begged Death .  `` It might be distressing , for the moment , '' said she ; `` but you seem to have behaved extremely well ; and it is over -- and may never -- can never , as a first meeting , occur again , and therefore you need not think about it . ''  There could be no harm in a scheme , a mere passive scheme .  I have no notion of men 's going on in this way ; and if ever I meet him again , I will give him such a dressing as he has not had this many a day .  said Margery , dimpling .  `` That thing is a trap , '' said the little City Mouse .  Then turning to Isabella , who had not been attending before -- '' You must know , my dear Mrs. Knightley , that we are by no means so sure of seeing Mr. Frank Churchill , in my opinion , as his father thinks .  You order me , whether you speak or not .  that I had not given way to her at the fatal moment !  Mr. Woodhouse was rather agitated by such harsh reflections on his friend Perry , to whom he had , in fact , though unconsciously , been attributing many of his own feelings and expressions ; -- but the soothing attentions of his daughters gradually removed the present evil , and the immediate alertness of one brother , and better recollections of the other , prevented any renewal of it .  She would have been ashamed to look her family in the face the next morning , had she not risen from her bed in more need of repose than when she lay down in it .  Is it necessary for me to use any roundabout phrase ? -- Your Yorkshire friend -- your correspondent in Yorkshire ; -- that would be the way , I suppose , if I were very bad. -- No , I can pronounce his name without the smallest distress .  Elinor had often wished for an opportunity of attempting to weaken her mother 's dependence on the attachment of Edward and herself , that the shock might be less when the whole truth were revealed , and now on this attack , though almost hopeless of success , she forced herself to begin her design by saying , as calmly as she could , `` I like Edward Ferrars very much , and shall always be glad to see him ; but as to the rest of the family , it is a matter of perfect indifference to me , whether I am ever known to them or not . ''  I do not think it could disagree with you . ''  But everything must take its chance .  Respect for right conduct is felt by every body .  HOW THE SEA BECAME SALT This story was told long ago by our Northern forefathers who brought it with them in their dragon ships when they crossed the North Sea to settle in England .  Where can Lyca sleep ?  Elinor would not speak .  She instantly saw that it was not unnoticed by him , that he even observed Marianne as she quitted the room , with such astonishment and concern , as hardly left him the recollection of what civility demanded towards herself .  `` Will he , indeed ?  The promise was readily given , and Willoughby 's behaviour during the whole of the evening declared at once his affection and happiness .  The girls looked all amazement .  I shall be truly glad to have them back again .  He had still a small house in Highbury , where most of his leisure days were spent ; and between useful occupation and the pleasures of society , the next eighteen or twenty years of his life passed cheerfully away .  There was not the smallest appearance of solicitude or remark about them in the Mansion-house ; but it was different at the Cottage : the young couple there were more disposed to speculate and wonder ; and Captain Wentworth had not been above four or five times in the Miss Musgroves ' company , and Charles Hayter had but just reappeared , when Anne had to listen to the opinions of her brother and sister , as to which was the one liked best .  I am going to Madrid , to see the King . ''  Isabella turned to Mrs. Weston for her approbation of the plan .  `` Send for the Woodpecker , '' said King Solomon .  `` This is not right , Mr .  Then Robert of Sicily was alone .  For ten years more the hermit lived in his mountain hut , thinking always of God , fasting and praying , and doing no least thing that was wrong .  Elinor tried to make a civil answer , though doubting her own success .  Mrs. Ferrars too -- in short it has been a scene of such complicated distress -- but I will hope that the storm may be weathered without our being any of us quite overcome .  Wickedness is always wickedness , but folly is not always folly. -- It depends upon the character of those who handle it .  `` It has a disagreeable look to me .  `` It is impossible for me to doubt any longer .  he snapped .  Elinor had some difficulty here to refrain from observing , that she thought Fanny might have borne with composure , an acquisition of wealth to her brother , by which neither she nor her child could be possibly impoverished .  And when the courtiers met each other in the halls , one would say `` Night , '' and the other would say `` ingale , '' and that was supposed to be conversation .  `` To be sure it would . ''  It holds nine .  `` I know you , I know you ; you would take up with any thing ; but I shall be a little more nice , and I am sure the good Campbells will be quite on my side ; with your superior talents , you have a right to move in the first circle .  Anne could do no more ; but her heart prophesied some mischance to damp the perfection of her felicity .  If you will be so very obliging as to help me -- -- '' `` Certainly , '' said the Elephant grandly , `` certainly . ''  So now they were very proud to think that one of their own number actually had frightened him , and they began to look on Buster Bear as a real hero .  To guess what all this meant , was impossible even for Emma .  `` Yes , yes , yes ! ''  I have been too much at my ease , too happy , too frank .  I hardly ever get a letter . ''  It did appear -- there was no concealing it -- exactly like the pretence of being in love with her , instead of Harriet ; an inconstancy , if real , the most contemptible and abominable !  I had known the Campbells a little in town ; and at Weymouth we were very much in the same set .  And by and by , she married one of the people who loved her , and had a house of her own to take care of .  I am very fond of hearing Miss Bates talk .  Every now and then she would sigh , and a tear would trickle down her cheek .  It is not a mere bit of gossip .  `` Ah !  After the cook had gone away and shut the door they stole softly back , and this time the City Mouse had something new to show : he took the little Country Mouse into a corner on the top shelf , where a big jar of dried prunes stood open .  Emma 's comforts and hopes were most agreeably carried on , by Harriet 's being to stay longer ; her fortnight was likely to be a month at least .  The bustle in the vestibule , as she passed along an inner lobby , assured her that they were already in the house .  `` And he wo n't dare set any more traps for me , '' gloated Billy Mink .  They were the first entitled , after Mrs. Weston and Emma , to be made happy ; -- from them he would have proceeded to Miss Fairfax , but she was so deep in conversation with John Knightley , that it would have been too positive an interruption ; and finding himself close to Mrs. Elton , and her attention disengaged , he necessarily began on the subject with her .  Long before he reappeared , attending the short , neat , brisk-moving aunt , and her elegant niece , -- Mrs. Weston , like a sweet-tempered woman and a good wife , had examined the passage again , and found the evils of it much less than she had supposed before -- indeed very trifling ; and here ended the difficulties of decision .  I assure you , Captain Wentworth , we are very sorry he ever left you . ''  `` A little .  you would not earn a very good livelihood as a working silversmith at this rate . ''  `` Nothing , for you have anticipated my answer . ''  `` Not at all , sir .  `` You have not been long enough in Bath , '' said he , `` to enjoy the evening parties of the place . ''  Had she intended ever to _marry_ him , it might have been worth while to pause and consider , and try to understand the value of his preference , and the character of his temper ; but for all the purposes of their acquaintance , he was quite amiable enough .  Selfish , vain , Eternal bane , That free love with bondage bound . ''  A dinner at Mr Musgrove 's had been the occasion when all these things should have been seen by Anne ; but she had staid at home , under the mixed plea of a headache of her own , and some return of indisposition in little Charles .  Anne enquired after Captain Benwick , Mary 's face was clouded directly .  Of their personal charms he had not required a second interview to be convinced .  I will say that for you . ''  He is younger than I am ; younger in feeling , if not in fact ; younger as a man .  Does Mrs. Churchill do the same ? ''  `` As moderate as those of the rest of the world , I believe .  He gave a deep , angry growl that made little shivers run over Chatterer , and then suddenly he started up that tree after Chatterer .  Considering everything , therefore , I hope , foolish as our engagement was , foolish as it has since in every way been proved , it was not at the time an unnatural or an inexcusable piece of folly . ''  At breakfast she neither ate , nor attempted to eat any thing ; and Elinor 's attention was then all employed , not in urging her , not in pitying her , nor in appearing to regard her , but in endeavouring to engage Mrs. Jenning 's notice entirely to herself .  His temper might perhaps be a little soured by finding , like many others of his sex , that through some unaccountable bias in favour of beauty , he was the husband of a very silly woman , -- but she knew that this kind of blunder was too common for any sensible man to be lastingly hurt by it. -- It was rather a wish of distinction , she believed , which produced his contemptuous treatment of every body , and his general abuse of every thing before him .  When he saw how strong they were , and how many there were of them , he began to be afraid that some day they might number more than the Egyptians , and might take his land from him .  But yet I think there was something wanting .  And books ! -- Thomson , Cowper , Scott -- she would buy them all over and over again : she would buy up every copy , I believe , to prevent their falling into unworthy hands ; and she would have every book that tells her how to admire an old twisted tree .  `` That is very true , and , therefore , I do not know whether , upon the whole , it would not be more advisable to do something for their mother while she lives , rather than for them -- something of the annuity kind I mean. -- My sisters would feel the good effects of it as well as herself .  Supposing it possible that they are not engaged , what distress would not such an enquiry inflict !  When King Saul heard these words , he was dismayed , and all the men of Israel , when they saw the man , fled from him and were sore afraid .  Pray say so , with my compliments .  It ought to have been a habit with him by this time , of following his duty , instead of consulting expediency .  It did n't take Buster long to catch all the fish he could eat .  The acquaintance she had already formed were unworthy of her .  Mrs. Ferrars at first reasonably endeavoured to dissuade him from marrying Miss Dashwood , by every argument in her power ; -- told him , that in Miss Morton he would have a woman of higher rank and larger fortune ; -- and enforced the assertion , by observing that Miss Morton was the daughter of a nobleman with thirty thousand pounds , while Miss Dashwood was only the daughter of a private gentleman with no more than THREE ; but when she found that , though perfectly admitting the truth of her representation , he was by no means inclined to be guided by it , she judged it wisest , from the experience of the past , to submit -- and therefore , after such an ungracious delay as she owed to her own dignity , and as served to prevent every suspicion of good-will , she issued her decree of consent to the marriage of Edward and Elinor .  She carried the bread just as she had carried the milk , in her cart .  I am exceedingly sorry : but it is well that the mistake ends where it does .  In each letter he had spoken well of his captain ; but yet , so little were they in the habit of attending to such matters , so unobservant and incurious were they as to the names of men or ships , that it had made scarcely any impression at the time ; and that Mrs Musgrove should have been suddenly struck , this very day , with a recollection of the name of Wentworth , as connected with her son , seemed one of those extraordinary bursts of mind which do sometimes occur .  `` It comes to the same thing .  Her early attachment to herself was very amiable ; and her inclination for good company , and power of appreciating what was elegant and clever , shewed that there was no want of taste , though strength of understanding must not be expected .  But indeed , my dear , you need not be uneasy .  Miss Woodhouse , must you be going ? -- You seem but just come -- so very obliging of you . ''  Poor Harriet was in a flutter of spirits which required all the reasonings and soothings and attentions of every kind that Emma could give .  `` And who knows but you may raise a dance , '' said she .  It is an engagement in some respects not prosperously begun , for their marriage must be at a very uncertain distance ; and even secrecy , as far as it can be observed , may now be very advisable . ''  It is too ridiculous !  Knightley ! -- I could not have believed it .  His countenance was thoroughly good-humoured ; and his manners were as friendly as the style of his letter .  She only consulted Lady Russell , who entered thoroughly into her sentiments , and was most happy to convey her as near to Mrs Smith 's lodgings in Westgate Buildings , as Anne chose to be taken .  Heaven forbid !  Her views of improving her little friend 's mind , by a great deal of useful reading and conversation , had never yet led to more than a few first chapters , and the intention of going on to-morrow .  `` But , my dear Marianne , as it has already exposed you to some very impertinent remarks , do you not now begin to doubt the discretion of your own conduct ? ''  Indeed , you are doing a very unkind thing in spreading the report , and you will find that you have though you will not believe me now . ''  They led him to a place where there was a round , deep well of clear water .  He stood quite still and began to talk to himself , -- it was a little way he had .  `` Oh , Edward !  so do I . ''  `` I did n't catch him that time , '' he growled , `` but I guess I gave him a good fright and taught him a lesson . ''  `` I have not the smallest objection on that account , '' replied Anne .  He will rally again , and be happy with another . ''  how poor they will be ! -- I must see what I can give them towards furnishing their house .  He looked at her , as if wanting to read her thoughts .  You know he had guessed the day before who had spoiled his fishing .  ay , -- Mr Wentworth , the curate of Monkford .  Little Joe made a good-natured face at Billy Mink and shook his head .  Mr. Weston certainly would never marry again .  Herself the widow of only a knight , she gave the dignity of a baronet all its due ; and Sir Walter , independent of his claims as an old acquaintance , an attentive neighbour , an obliging landlord , the husband of her very dear friend , the father of Anne and her sisters , was , as being Sir Walter , in her apprehension , entitled to a great deal of compassion and consideration under his present difficulties .  Emma could have wished Mrs. Elton elsewhere ; but she was in a humour to have patience with every body ; and as Mrs. Elton met her with unusual graciousness , she hoped the rencontre would do them no harm .  And he prayed that he might be shown a man -- `` Whose soul in the heavenly grace had grown To the selfsame measure as his own ; Whose treasure on the celestial shore Could neither be less than his nor more . ''  That was a pull !  Marianne to be sure is lost to me for ever .  Jane very patiently assured her that she had not caught any cold .  Mr. Dashwood had wished for it more for the sake of his wife and daughters than for himself or his son ; -- but to his son , and his son 's son , a child of four years old , it was secured , in such a way , as to leave to himself no power of providing for those who were most dear to him , and who most needed a provision by any charge on the estate , or by any sale of its valuable woods .  I wish she had accepted him .  Mrs. Jennings received the refusal with some surprise , and repeated her invitation immediately .  I think it is so .  And all this assembly shall know that the Lord saveth not with sword and spear ; for the battle is the Lord 's , and he will give you into our hands . ''  So well had they recommended themselves to Lady Middleton , so agreeable had their assiduities made them to her , that though Lucy was certainly not so elegant , and her sister not even genteel , she was as ready as Sir John to ask them to spend a week or two in Conduit Street ; and it happened to be particularly convenient to the Miss Steeles , as soon as the Dashwoods ' invitation was known , that their visit should begin a few days before the party took place .  I like old friends ; and Miss Jane Fairfax is a very pretty sort of young lady , a very pretty and a very well-behaved young lady indeed .  They heard her with surprise .  For the first time , since their renewed acquaintance , she felt that she was betraying the least sensibility of the two .  I have had such a time of it !  VII FARMER BROWN 'S BOY HAS NO LUCK AT ALL Farmer Brown 's boy tramped through the Green Forest , whistling merrily .  Now it began to grow dark ; in the castle windows the lights began to show .  Right away Blacky began to scream at the top of his lungs .  and after a moment 's pause , `` but you have never asked me one word about our dinner at the Pooles yesterday . ''  Mrs. Weston was disappointed .  `` Have you ever seen the lady ? ''  `` You are very wrong .  `` I can not bear to have you think me impertinently curious .  Instead of talking of Edward , they came gradually to talk only of Robert , -- a subject on which he had always more to say than on any other , and in which she soon betrayed an interest even equal to his own ; and in short , it became speedily evident to both , that he had entirely supplanted his brother .  That was your doing , papa .  `` God save you , '' said the fox .  At least some of them had .  She must not appear at first .  Emma watched them in , and then joined Harriet at the interesting counter , -- trying , with all the force of her own mind , to convince her that if she wanted plain muslin it was of no use to look at figured ; and that a blue ribbon , be it ever so beautiful , would still never match her yellow pattern .  `` Aye , aye , '' said Mrs. Jennings , `` we know the reason of all that very well ; if a certain person who shall be nameless , had been there , you would not have been a bit tired : and to say the truth it was not very pretty of him not to give you the meeting when he was invited . ''  Mrs. John Knightley was a pretty , elegant little woman , of gentle , quiet manners , and a disposition remarkably amiable and affectionate ; wrapt up in her family ; a devoted wife , a doating mother , and so tenderly attached to her father and sister that , but for these higher ties , a warmer love might have seemed impossible .  Nothing can be more simple , you see .  You do not know what it is to have tempers to manage . ''  Another was Reddy Fox .  I am always glad to see him .  Is there nothing one can get to comfort her ?  I wish Sarah was here to doctor you , but I am no doctor myself .  `` They may be induced to go too .  Mr. and Mrs. John Knightley were to come down in August , and she was invited to remain till they could bring her back .  your sister-in-law 's brother , Miss Dashwood ?  Being pretty well aware of what sort of joy you must both be feeling , I have been in no hurry with my congratulations ; but I hope it all went off tolerably well .  She thought he was often looking at her , and trying for a fuller view of her face than it suited her to give .  Jane and I quite ready .  Marianne , now looking dreadfully white , and unable to stand , sunk into her chair , and Elinor , expecting every moment to see her faint , tried to screen her from the observation of others , while reviving her with lavender water .  He said , -- `` The little figs I like best are the fat , ripe , juicy ones that drop off when the breeze blows ; and then the wind blows them about on the ground , this way and that ; the great heap of figs over there is so still that I think they must be all bad figs . ''  What felt Elinor at that moment ?  The Little Fir Tree was happy as a bird , because he knew they were about to cut him down .  Had Edward been intentionally deceiving her ?  `` Should I ?  He pushed open the little door ; he climbed up , up , up the little stairs ; he came out through the hole under the root ; he ran and ran through the fields ; and at last he came to his own house .  And can you think how happy the baby's mother was ?  How will a conundrum reckon ? ''  Eliza had confessed to me , though most reluctantly , the name of her lover ; and when he returned to town , which was within a fortnight after myself , we met by appointment , he to defend , I to punish his conduct .  And without farther ceremony , she turned away and walked to the instrument .  You must be the best judge of your own happiness .  He looked at them slightly , without seeming to know who they were , and merely nodded to Mrs. Jennings from the other side of the room .  It was precisely what Emma would have wished , had she deemed it possible enough for wishing .  Of what use will it be to him to be beautiful , rich , or powerful , if he grows into a bad man ?  `` Is mama coming ? -- ''  But though so much of the matter was known to them already , that Mrs. Jennings might have had enough to do in spreading that knowledge farther , without seeking after more , she had resolved from the first to pay a visit of comfort and inquiry to her cousins as soon as she could ; and nothing but the hindrance of more visitors than usual , had prevented her going to them within that time .  Or the glistening Eye to the poison of a smile !  The name of Musgrove would have told him enough .  I saw you first in February . ''  I would wish every thing to be as much to your taste as possible . ''  She immediately felt how reasonable it was , that Mrs Croft should be thinking and speaking of Edward , and not of Frederick ; and with shame at her own forgetfulness applied herself to the knowledge of their former neighbour 's present state with proper interest .  Elinor , confirmed in every pleasant hope , was all cheerfulness ; rejoicing that in her letters to her mother , she had pursued her own judgment rather than her friend 's , in making very light of the indisposition which delayed them at Cleveland ; and almost fixing on the time when Marianne would be able to travel .  Harriet Smith marries Robert Martin . ''  It was now his object to marry .  Anne hoped the gentlemen might each be too much self-occupied to hear .  `` It is a great pleasure where one can indulge in it , '' said the young man , `` though there are not many houses that I should presume on so far ; but in coming _home_ I felt I might do any thing . ''  And then fly off , through half a sentence , to her mother 's old petticoat .  `` I should have thought , '' said Anne , `` that my manner to yourself might have spared you much or all of this . ''  Such a sad loss to our party to-day ! ''  Her pulse was much stronger , and every symptom more favourable than on the preceding visit .  Pray excuse me ; but supposing any little inconvenience may be apprehended from the intimacy , it can not be expected that Emma , accountable to nobody but her father , who perfectly approves the acquaintance , should put an end to it , so long as it is a source of pleasure to herself .  But this good old Mr. Woodhouse , I wish you had heard his gallant speeches to me at dinner .  I have often heard him declare , that if baronetcies were saleable , anybody should have his for fifty pounds , arms and motto , name and livery included ; but I will not pretend to repeat half that I used to hear him say on that subject .  Lady Russell saw either less or more than her young friend , for she saw nothing to excite distrust .  `` But for my mother 's sake and mine -- ''  `` I wish with all my soul , '' cried Sir John , `` that Willoughby were among us again . ''  `` Then I must bid you farewell for a longer time than I should wish to do . ''  here it comes .  Anne had no Uppercross Hall before her , no landed estate , no headship of a family ; and if they could but keep Captain Wentworth from being made a baronet , she would not change situations with Anne .  `` I do not dislike him .  To be sure , your brother and sister will ask you to come to them . ''  Pale through pathless ways The fancied image strays , Famished , weeping , weak , With hollow piteous shriek .  `` And who are the Ellisons ? ''  I was startled and shocked .  `` I am flattered by his commendation .  From all danger of seeing Willoughby again , her mother considered her to be at least equally safe in town as in the country , since his acquaintance must now be dropped by all who called themselves her friends .  She has a blister on one of her heels , as large as a three-shilling piece .  Yes , some share of the tenderness of the past .  EARTH 'S ANSWER Earth raised up her head From the darkness dread and drear , Her light fled , Stony , dread , And her locks covered with grey despair .  What was going to happen ?  While Sir Walter and Elizabeth were assiduously pushing their good fortune in Laura Place , Anne was renewing an acquaintance of a very different description .  Mr Shepherd was eloquent on the subject ; pointing out all the circumstances of the Admiral 's family , which made him peculiarly desirable as a tenant .  And really Little Joe has a great deal of courage .  `` Here is some mistake I am sure -- some dreadful mistake .  Can I see another 's grief , And not seek for kind relief ?  But be it sweetness or be it stupidity in her -- quickness of friendship , or dulness of feeling -- there was one person , I think , who must have felt it : Miss Fairfax herself .  said the little Half-Chick .  `` Yes ; Mr. Pratt .  I am going home . ''  The secrecy with which everything had been carried on between them , was rationally treated as enormously heightening the crime , because , had any suspicion of it occurred to the others , proper measures would have been taken to prevent the marriage ; and he called on Elinor to join with him in regretting that Lucy 's engagement with Edward had not rather been fulfilled , than that she should thus be the means of spreading misery farther in the family. -- He thus continued :  `` Who art thou , and what dost thou here ? ''  It has been so many years my province to give advice , that you can not be surprized , Mr. Knightley , at this little remains of office . ''  Because he believes many people pretend to more admiration of the beauties of nature than they really feel , and is disgusted with such pretensions , he affects greater indifference and less discrimination in viewing them himself than he possesses .  I think , on the contrary , when people shut themselves up entirely from society , it is a very bad thing ; and that it is much more advisable to mix in the world in a proper degree , without living in it either too much or too little .  Seven summers old Lovely Lyca told .  Thin she betho't hersel ' , An ' tuk her schissors out , An ' shnipped a big hole in the bag , So she could look about .  May be she is ill in town ; nothing in the world more likely , for I have a notion she is always rather sickly .  `` Me ! -- oh !  `` But did she tell you she was married , Thomas ? ''  He had distinguished himself , and early gained the other step in rank , and must now , by successive captures , have made a handsome fortune .  `` More !  `` Nay , nay , read on. -- You will find how very much he suffers . ''  `` I have a notion , '' said Lucy , `` you think the little Middletons rather too much indulged ; perhaps they may be the outside of enough ; but it is so natural in Lady Middleton ; and for my part , I love to see children full of life and spirits ; I can not bear them if they are tame and quiet . ''  She had a great wish to see him .  `` You 'set him free , ' you say ? ''  `` I guess , '' said he at last , `` that I 'm not so smart as I thought I was , and I 've got a lot to learn yet . ''  She had , however , one very intimate friend , a sensible , deserving woman , who had been brought , by strong attachment to herself , to settle close by her , in the village of Kellynch ; and on her kindness and advice , Lady Elliot mainly relied for the best help and maintenance of the good principles and instruction which she had been anxiously giving her daughters .  `` But he told you that he loved you . ''  Elton . ''  I had known you by character , however , long before . ''  While he was so dull , it was no wonder that Harriet should be dull likewise ; and they were both insufferable .  It would be an interesting , and certainly a very kind undertaking ; highly becoming her own situation in life , her leisure , and powers .  In general , his voice and manner were studiously calm .  Why , right in the middle of the biggest patch of the biggest blueberries he ever had seen in all his life !  said his Mammy .  Mr. Elton 's situation was most suitable , quite the gentleman himself , and without low connexions ; at the same time , not of any family that could fairly object to the doubtful birth of Harriet .  They walked on .  `` That 's quite unnecessary ; I see Jane every day : -- but as you like .  Soon my Angel came again ; I was armed , he came in vain ; For the time of youth was fled , And grey hairs were on my head .  The aunt was as tiresome as ever ; more tiresome , because anxiety for her health was now added to admiration of her powers ; and they had to listen to the description of exactly how little bread and butter she ate for breakfast , and how small a slice of mutton for dinner , as well as to see exhibitions of new caps and new workbags for her mother and herself ; and Jane 's offences rose again .  `` I must not tell , ma'am .  I can imagine , that before she had seen any body superior , she might tolerate him .  It is so old that even as long ago as four thousand years it had people who dug in the mines , and knew how to weave cloth and to make beautiful ornaments out of gold , and who could fight and make laws ; but we do not know just where they came from , nor exactly how they lived .  She thinks so little of her own beauty .  Then he took his staff in his hand and went and chose five smooth stones out of the brook , and put them in a shepherd 's bag which he had ; and his sling was in his hand ; and he went out and drew near to the Philistine .  was Sir Walter 's cold suspicious inquiry .  `` You are comfortable because you are under command . ''  I should not be helped so soon , but it smells most excellent , and I can not help beginning . ''  `` Yes : but a young lady -- a bride -- I ought to have paid my respects to her if possible .  a fine complimentary opening : But it is his way .  It was impossible to say how much he should be gratified by being employed on such an errand . ''  `` Very true. -- Well , a little while ago it occurred to me how very sad it would be to have Jane Fairfax walking home again , late at night , and cold as the nights are now .  He distrusts his own judgment in such matters so much , that he is always unwilling to give his opinion on any picture ; but he has an innate propriety and simplicity of taste , which in general direct him perfectly right . ''  Yes , I see what she means , ( turning to Mr. Knightley , ) and I will try to hold my tongue .  But , my dear , we must touch up the Colonel to do some thing to the parsonage , and make it comfortable for them , before Lucy goes to it . ''  It can be round in five minutes . ''  No sacrifice on any side worth the name .  But Mrs. Dixon must be very much disappointed .  Louisa was not very well , and she was very tired , but she always said , `` I 'll try , '' when she had a chance to work ; so she said , `` I 'll try , '' to the publisher .  and Lord help 'em !  A large party secures its own amusement .  It was a clear thing he was less in love than he had been .  Captain Wentworth now hurried off to get everything ready on his part , and to be soon followed by the two ladies .  --  those letters are convenient passports .  I mention no names ; but happy the man who changes Emma for Harriet ! ''  Knightley. -- '' Emma , that I fear is a word -- No , I have no wish -- Stay , yes , why should I hesitate ? -- I have gone too far already for concealment. -- Emma , I accept your offer -- Extraordinary as it may seem , I accept it , and refer myself to you as a friend. -- Tell me , then , have I no chance of ever succeeding ? ''  How can I learn to rule myself , To be the child I should , Honest and brave , nor ever tire Of trying to be good ?  Jane she had a distinct glimpse of , looking extremely ill ; and , before the door had shut them out , she heard Miss Bates saying , `` Well , my dear , I shall _say_ you are laid down upon the bed , and I am sure you are ill enough . ''  The horses arrived , even before they were expected , and Colonel Brandon only pressing her hand with a look of solemnity , and a few words spoken too low to reach her ear , hurried into the carriage .  I was almost sure you would not leave London yet awhile ; though you TOLD me , you know , at Barton , that you should not stay above a MONTH .  Twice , when David had a chance to kill the king , he forbore to harm him ; but even then , Saul continued trying to take his life , and David was kept away from his home as if he were an enemy .  But I believe I am nice ; I do not like strange voices ; and nobody speaks like you and poor Miss Taylor .  `` What is the gentleman 's name ? ''  No , he had already done that , which no man who CAN feel for another would do .  yes -- she will have her own room , of course ; the room she always has ; -- and there is the nursery for the children , -- just as usual , you know .  He is one of the smartest and cleverest of all the little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest , and all the others know it .  The man called , and whistled , and looked , but no little horse appeared .  `` But you have not seen so much of the world as I have .  Chatterer gave a little frightened gasp and looked this way and looked that way .  `` Good God ! ''  The prince turned and kicked the little creature .  It was not merely in fine words or hyperbolical compliment that he paid his duty ; nothing could be more proper or pleasing than his whole manner to her -- nothing could more agreeably denote his wish of considering her as a friend and securing her affection .  `` You do not appear so well satisfied with his letter as I am ; but still you must , at least I hope you must , think the better of him for it .  We had had a great deal of trouble in persuading him to sit at all .  His eyes were fixed on Marianne , and , after a silence of some minutes , he said , with a faint smile , `` Your sister , I understand , does not approve of second attachments . ''  `` To be sure ! ''  Instantly the Wind began to blow ; he puffed and tugged at the man's cloak , and raised a storm of hail and rain , to beat at it .  They had not been long seated and composed when Mr. Woodhouse , with a melancholy shake of the head and a sigh , called his daughter 's attention to the sad change at Hartfield since she had been there last .  `` Mrs Musgrove thinks all her servants so steady , that it would be high treason to call it in question ; but I am sure , without exaggeration , that her upper house-maid and laundry-maid , instead of being in their business , are gadding about the village , all day long .  It was also a very early speculation with Emma .  `` And so do I .  One hears sometimes of a child being `the picture of health ; ' now , Emma always gives me the idea of being the complete picture of grown-up health .  A POISON TREE I was angry with my friend : I told my wrath , my wrath did end .  `` Why , I hope not that .  Mr. Churchill has pride ; but his pride is nothing to his wife 's : his is a quiet , indolent , gentlemanlike sort of pride that would harm nobody , and only make himself a little helpless and tiresome ; but her pride is arrogance and insolence !  For they hoped that the hardship would kill off the Israelites .  The night following this affair -- I was to go the next morning -- was spent by me in deliberating on what my future conduct should be .  The same image of Mr Elliot speaking for himself brought Anne to composure again .  It was autumn , and the wind was sad ; and the golden elm leaves lay scattered about among the grass , and on the gravel path .  I wonder whether it is so .  It is encouraging people to marry if you make so much of them . ''  Every time she went out to market she locked the door of the house behind her , and as soon as she came in again she locked the door behind her and put the key in her apron pocket , where she kept her scissors and some sugar candy .  I can allow for the fears of the child , but not of the man .  `` Come along , old Moon , and make a light ! ''  What ! -- engaged to her all the winter -- before either of them came to Highbury ? ''  He listened with all due deference ; acknowledged that he had heard many people say the same -- but yet he must confess , that to him nothing could make amends for the want of the fine glow of health .  Edward have got some business at Oxford , he says ; so he must go there for a time ; and after THAT , as soon as he can light upon a Bishop , he will be ordained .  The character of his manner was embarrassment .  `` I wonder what they are all doing -- whether his sisters know -- if he is unhappy , they will be unhappy too .  So I said , I was very much obliged to him : you know I could not do less ; and then he went back to Elizabeth , and I came round by the stables -- I believe I did -- but I hardly knew where I was , or any thing about it .  The remaining five were left to their own powers , and Emma doubted their getting on very well ; for Mr. Knightley seemed little disposed for conversation ; Mrs. Elton was wanting notice , which nobody had inclination to pay , and she was herself in a worry of spirits which would have made her prefer being silent .  `` If we can persuade your father to all this , '' said Lady Russell , looking over her paper , `` much may be done .  CHAPTER I  Anne 's good-will , however , was not to be lessened by what she heard .  `` Nay , '' said Anne , `` I have no particular enquiry to make about her .  And she called her chickens to help her .  Tell me if , when I returned to England in the year eight , with a few thousand pounds , and was posted into the Laconia , if I had then written to you , would you have answered my letter ?  It had just occurred to Mrs. Weston that Mrs. Elton must be asked to begin the ball ; that she would expect it ; which interfered with all their wishes of giving Emma that distinction. -- Emma heard the sad truth with fortitude .  In the centre of some of the best preserves in the kingdom , surrounded by three great proprietors , each more careful and jealous than the other ; and to two of the three at least , Charles Hayter might get a special recommendation .  `` Nothing at all .  Elinor , smiling at the grave and decisive importance of her brother 's tone , calmly replied ,  --  Martin ? ''  This was a device , I suppose , to sport with my curiosity , and exercise my talent of guessing .  And it was spoken with a sort of sighing animation , which had a vast deal of the lover .  `` The worst is over ! ''  `` Not at all .  Marianne sighed out her similar apprehension ; and Elinor 's heart wrung for the feelings of Edward , while braving his mother 's threats , for a woman who could not reward him .  Farmer Brown 's boy scowled down at them more puzzled than ever .  `` Now , ma'am , '' said Jane to her aunt , `` shall we join Mrs .  He opened every little drawer and looked in , but it was n't in any of the drawers ; he peeped on every shelf , but it was n't on a shelf ; he hunted in every closet , but it was n't in there .  James could take the note .  said the king .  Colonel Brandon came in while the party were at tea , and by his manner of looking round the room for Marianne , Elinor immediately fancied that he neither expected nor wished to see her there , and , in short , that he was already aware of what occasioned her absence .  Edward had been staying several weeks in the house before he engaged much of Mrs. Dashwood 's attention ; for she was , at that time , in such affliction as rendered her careless of surrounding objects .  With the assistance of his mother-in-law , Sir John was not long in discovering that the name of Ferrars began with an F. and this prepared a future mine of raillery against the devoted Elinor , which nothing but the newness of their acquaintance with Edward could have prevented from being immediately sprung .  `` If you were never particularly struck by her manners before , '' said she , `` I think you will to-day .  she was going to exclaim ; but she presently found that it was a family of old friends , who were coming , like herself , by particular desire , to help Mr. Weston 's judgment ; and they were so very closely followed by another carriage of cousins , who had been entreated to come early with the same distinguishing earnestness , on the same errand , that it seemed as if half the company might soon be collected together for the purpose of preparatory inspection .  She was a beautiful creature when she came to you , but , in my opinion , the attractions you have added are infinitely superior to what she received from nature . ''  `` I can not suppose it possible that she should . ''  `` And here is Mrs. Weston and Mr. Frank Churchill too ! -- Quite delightful ; so many friends ! ''  Wee folk , good folk , Trooping all together ; Green jacket , red cap , And white owl 's feather !  `` Why , pretty well ; but not quite well .  `` She would have turned back then , but for you ? ''  `` You are very good .  If I would not go for the sake of your father , I should think it scandalous to go for the sake of his heir .  `` Walter , '' said she , `` get down this moment .  We have had a very dull Christmas ; Mr and Mrs Musgrove have not had one dinner party all the holidays .  The consequence of which was , that Mrs. John Dashwood was obliged to submit not only to the exceedingly great inconvenience of sending her carriage for the Miss Dashwoods , but , what was still worse , must be subject to all the unpleasantness of appearing to treat them with attention : and who could tell that they might not expect to go out with her a second time ?  We have seen nothing of him since November .  Captain Benwick looked , and was , the youngest of the three , and , compared with either of them , a little man .  Harriet is disgraced by any comparison .  Ours are all apple-tarts .  They were visited on their first settling by almost all their relations and friends .  I hope my mother is now convinced that I have no more talents than inclination for a public life ! ''  The unpersuadable point , which he did not mention , Emma guessed to be good behaviour to his father .  And then there was such comfort in the very easy distance of Randalls from Hartfield , so convenient for even solitary female walking , and in Mr. Weston 's disposition and circumstances , which would make the approaching season no hindrance to their spending half the evenings in the week together .  No one had ever come within the Kellynch circle , who could bear a comparison with Frederick Wentworth , as he stood in her memory .  I have many things to support me .  Approve my charade and my intentions in the same glance . '  You need not tell her so , but I thought her dress hideous the other night .  `` If Elinor is frightened away by her dislike of Mrs. Jennings , '' said Marianne , `` at least it need not prevent MY accepting her invitation .  He is of no profession at all . ''  Emma only nodded , and smiled. -- After a little thinking , and a very tender sigh , he added ,  I am very sure you did me good .  `` Oh !  Such a thing never had happened before .  The carriage is gone to-day , to bring Louisa and the Harvilles to-morrow .  Chapter 23  Well , sir , the time must come when you will be paid for all this , when you will have little labour and great enjoyment . ''  She then went away , walking on tiptoe out of the room , as if she supposed her young friend 's affliction could be increased by noise .  And with regard to Anne 's dislike of Bath , she considered it as a prejudice and mistake arising , first , from the circumstance of her having been three years at school there , after her mother 's death ; and secondly , from her happening to be not in perfectly good spirits the only winter which she had afterwards spent there with herself .  It was the very circumstance he could have wished for .  `` No , '' replied Lucy , `` not to Mr. ROBERT Ferrars -- I never saw him in my life ; but , '' fixing her eyes upon Elinor , `` to his eldest brother . ''  The Little Fir Tree , close down in the cover of the others , would call up , -- `` Oh , please , dear snow , give me a cap , too !  Although in one instance the bearers of not good tidings , Mr. and Mrs. Weston 's visit this morning was in another respect particularly opportune .  Charles Hayter had been at Lyme oftener than suited her ; and when they dined with the Harvilles there had been only a maid-servant to wait , and at first Mrs Harville had always given Mrs Musgrove precedence ; but then , she had received so very handsome an apology from her on finding out whose daughter she was , and there had been so much going on every day , there had been so many walks between their lodgings and the Harvilles , and she had got books from the library , and changed them so often , that the balance had certainly been much in favour of Lyme .  After a while he came to Madrid and to the palace of the King .  `` But for my satisfaction , if you will have the goodness to ring for Mary ; stay : I am sure you will have the still greater goodness of going yourself into my bedroom , and bringing me the small inlaid box which you will find on the upper shelf of the closet . ''  It was not the first time of her feeling the same kind of conviction ; for , more than once before , beginning with the observation of `` your sister looks unwell to-day , '' or `` your sister seems out of spirits , '' he had appeared on the point , either of disclosing , or of inquiring , something particular about her .  or have you none but that of waiting for Mrs. Ferrars 's death , which is a melancholy and shocking extremity ? -- Is her son determined to submit to this , and to all the tediousness of the many years of suspense in which it may involve you , rather than run the risk of her displeasure for a while by owning the truth ? ''  Margery knew what she had put there : it was the radish-row ; these must be radish leaves .  You have many parties of that kind here , I suppose , Miss Woodhouse , every summer ? ''  I do not care for myself .  Edward is only to hold the living till the person to whom the Colonel has really sold the presentation , is old enough to take it. -- Aye , aye , that is the fact , depend upon it . ''  `` Well , then , he is lately dead , Marianne , for I am sure there was such a man once , and his name begins with an F . ''  Dear me !  Such a good-natured fellow !  He meant not to be unkind , however , and , as a mark of his affection for the three girls , he left them a thousand pounds a-piece .  I am every instant hearing something which overpowers me .  Miss Bates looked about her , so happily ! --  why do n't he repair it ? -- who should do it but himself ? ''  Two months must bring it to the proof .  Bless me !  But every thing was then just settled between Miss Grey and me .  She gave a slight glance round the table , and applied herself to it .  I did not know that I had fixed a day , but as he says I did , I am going now . ''  Do not let any reflection fall on the principles or the care of the friends who brought me up .  said the lords and ladies .  `` Your allowing yourself to be so occupied and so unhappy about Mr. Elton 's marrying , Harriet , is the strongest reproach you can make _me_ .  Frank Churchill returned to his station by Emma ; and as soon as Miss Bates was quiet , she found herself necessarily overhearing the discourse of Mrs. Elton and Miss Fairfax , who were standing a little way behind her. -- He was thoughtful .  She frequently gave me hints of it .  It checked the idleness of one , and the business of the other .  Marianne pressed her hand and replied ,  There are plenty more on the bushes , and all I 've got to do is to pick them .  `` Must be that Chatterer got out of bed the wrong way this morning , '' thought he .  The stories are called _legends_ .  Mrs Musgrove had got Mrs Harville 's children away as much as she could , every possible supply from Uppercross had been furnished , to lighten the inconvenience to the Harvilles , while the Harvilles had been wanting them to come to dinner every day ; and in short , it seemed to have been only a struggle on each side as to which should be most disinterested and hospitable .  Though I fully believe that , at present , you have not the smallest intention of accepting him , there is no saying what may happen .  Anne had always thought such a style of intercourse highly imprudent ; but she had ceased to endeavour to check it , from believing that , though there were on each side continual subjects of offence , neither family could now do without it .  `` Oh !  said the little Half-Chick .  `` And when she has forgiven you , perhaps a little humility may be convenient while acknowledging a second engagement , almost as imprudent in HER eyes as the first . ''  When he found them , he saluted them and began to talk with them .  The garden was just as smooth and brown as the night before , and no little seedlings were in sight .  `` And when she had come away , Mrs. Martin was so very kind as to send Mrs. Goddard a beautiful goose -- the finest goose Mrs. Goddard had ever seen .  I never knew days fly so fast .  You must allow for an injured , angry woman .  A crowd in a little room -- Miss Woodhouse , you have the art of giving pictures in a few words .  At last he took the ring off and put it out of sight .  Captain Wentworth jealous of her affection !  `` And is there any other good deed you have done ? ''  THE STORY OF THE LITTLE RID HIN There was once't upon a time A little small Rid Hin , Off in the good ould country Where yees ha ' nivir bin .  Mr. Knightley 's eyes had preceded Miss Bates 's in a glance at Jane .  Behold him there , the monarch of the seas !  Harriet was one of those , who , having once begun , would be always in love .  You always speak to me , if everything is all right , when I come home .  Their man-servant had been sent one morning to Exeter on business ; and when , as he waited at table , he had satisfied the inquiries of his mistress as to the event of his errand , this was his voluntary communication --  With regard to Captain Wentworth , though Anne hazarded no enquiries , there was voluntary communication sufficient .  `` Nay , Edward , '' said Marianne , `` you need not reproach me .  Mr Shepherd , a civil , cautious lawyer , who , whatever might be his hold or his views on Sir Walter , would rather have the disagreeable prompted by anybody else , excused himself from offering the slightest hint , and only begged leave to recommend an implicit reference to the excellent judgement of Lady Russell , from whose known good sense he fully expected to have just such resolute measures advised as he meant to see finally adopted .  He was not a great favourite with his fair sister-in-law .  `` See here , my friends , if we are to get on with this matter you 'd best show me the spot .  She went , however ; and when they reached the farm , and she was to be put down , at the end of the broad , neat gravel walk , which led between espalier apple-trees to the front door , the sight of every thing which had given her so much pleasure the autumn before , was beginning to revive a little local agitation ; and when they parted , Emma observed her to be looking around with a sort of fearful curiosity , which determined her not to allow the visit to exceed the proposed quarter of an hour .  To Marianne , indeed , the meeting between Edward and her sister was but a continuation of that unaccountable coldness which she had often observed at Norland in their mutual behaviour .  `` Why , to be sure , '' said he , seeming to recollect himself , `` people have little , have very little in their power .  my dear , human flesh !  `` That is a trap ! ''  Jove sent an eel .  `` My advice , '' said Mrs. Weston kindly and persuasively , `` I certainly do feel tempted to give .  He ran along the shelf and nibbled at a cheese here , and a bit of butter there , until he saw an especially rich , very delicious-smelling piece of cheese on a queer little stand in a corner .  Had it taken place only once a year , it would have been a grievance .  `` I am glad of it .  Mary , too , was growing calmer .  What can it be ?  If we were obliged to go out such an evening as this , by any call of duty or business , what a hardship we should deem it ; -- and here are we , probably with rather thinner clothing than usual , setting forward voluntarily , without excuse , in defiance of the voice of nature , which tells man , in every thing given to his view or his feelings , to stay at home himself , and keep all under shelter that he can ; -- here are we setting forward to spend five dull hours in another man 's house , with nothing to say or to hear that was not said and heard yesterday , and may not be said and heard again to-morrow .  I consider him with great respect .  But this was not judged feasible .  In books too , as well as in music , she courted the misery which a contrast between the past and present was certain of giving .  Emma , this is your doing .  said the hermit .  I saw a vast deal of that in the neighbourhood round Maple Grove .  As he stood , her voice came from the air , saying , sadly , `` Learn to conquer your pride by being in submission to your own subjects . ''  Mrs Musgrove was good humouredly beginning to express her perfect readiness for the play , if Henrietta and all the others liked it , when Mary eagerly interrupted her by exclaiming --  A day or two passed without producing anything .  I should be mortified indeed if I did not believe I had been of some use ; but it is not every body who will bestow praise where they may .  And she picked Little Jack Rollaround up and threw him , trundle-bed boat and all , into the middle of the sea !  The chance proved a lucky one , for a message from Mrs. Palmer soon after she arrived , carried Mrs. Jennings away .  `` More air than one often sees in Bath .  At last the affair was decided .  `` Heir presumptive , William Walter Elliot , Esq. , great grandson of the second Sir Walter . ''  At least , however , I can not be worse off than I should have been , if the other had been the person ; and now -- it _is_ possible -- ''  `` But you must go , Charles .  He turned back and walked with me to the Pump Yard .  `` May she always be poor , if she can employ her riches no better . ''  You must not judge of him , Miss Dashwood , from YOUR slight acquaintance. -- Poor Edward ! -- His manners are certainly not the happiest in nature. -- But we are not all born , you know , with the same powers , -- the same address. -- Poor fellow ! -- to see him in a circle of strangers ! -- to be sure it was pitiable enough ! -- but upon my soul , I believe he has as good a heart as any in the kingdom ; and I declare and protest to you I never was so shocked in my life , as when it all burst forth .  Emma felt they were friends again ; and the conviction giving her at first great satisfaction , and then a little sauciness , she could not help saying , as he was admiring the baby ,  . ''  `` Well , my dear , I must be gone before I have had half my talk out .  I lay no embargo on any body 's words .  `` I do not know which it ought to be called . ''  She had a large acquaintance , of course professionally , among those who can afford to buy , and she disposes of my merchandise .  I shall go abroad for a couple of years -- and when I return , I shall come to you for my wife .  Her happiness was from within .  MY PRETTY ROSE TREE A flower was offered to me , Such a flower as May never bore ; But I said `` I 've a pretty rose tree , '' And I passed the sweet flower o'er .  I shall be at home in twenty minutes . ''  If you remember any queernesses , set them all to the right account. -- Of the pianoforte so much talked of , I feel it only necessary to say , that its being ordered was absolutely unknown to Miss F -- , who would never have allowed me to send it , had any choice been given her. -- The delicacy of her mind throughout the whole engagement , my dear madam , is much beyond my power of doing justice to .  `` I can give you no account of them .  The Woodhouses were first in consequence there .  `` Indeed ! ''  `` Very true , Mr. Weston , perfectly true .  The starry floor , The watery shore , Are given thee till the break of day . ''  `` Oh !  `` Oh ! ''  Do n't you know that 's no way to carry butter ?  Now you know all . ''  His perception of the striking improvement of Harriet 's manner , since her introduction at Hartfield , was not one of the least agreeable proofs of his growing attachment .  `` Exactly so -- The shape of the eye and the lines about the mouth -- I have not a doubt of your success .  There can not be two opinions about _him_ .  `` Only think of our happening to meet him ! -- How very odd !  She dropped off , and the old Fox picked her up and put her in his bag , slung the bag over his shoulder , and started for home , where the kettle was boiling .  said the Country Mouse .  I 'd rather you would . ''  She was not sorry for the excuse .  She was answered in the negative .  She shewed it to me .  Secrecy may be advisable ; but still I can not help wondering at its being practiced by him . ''  Consider , my father 's heir : the future representative of the family . ''  `` It is a sort of thing which nobody could have expected .  `` No , Marianne , in no possible way . ''  It was a very extraordinary thing !  Edward 's marriage with Lucy was as firmly determined on , and the time of its taking place remained as absolutely uncertain , as she had concluded it would be ; -- every thing depended , exactly after her expectation , on his getting that preferment , of which , at present , there seemed not the smallest chance .  But the effort was painful .  I must speak to you by such means as are within my reach .  The very first place that the City Mouse took the Country Mouse to see was the kitchen cupboard of the house where he lived .  For he hears the lambs ' innocent call , And he hears the ewes ' tender reply ; He is watching while they are in peace , For they know when their Shepherd is nigh .  Good heavens !  I answered it within an hour ; but from the confusion of my mind , and the multiplicity of business falling on me at once , my answer , instead of being sent with all the many other letters of that day , was locked up in my writing-desk ; and I , trusting that I had written enough , though but a few lines , to satisfy her , remained without any uneasiness. -- I was rather disappointed that I did not hear from her again speedily ; but I made excuses for her , and was too busy , and -- may I add ? -- too cheerful in my views to be captious. -- We removed to Windsor ; and two days afterwards I received a parcel from her , my own letters all returned ! -- and a few lines at the same time by the post , stating her extreme surprize at not having had the smallest reply to her last ; and adding , that as silence on such a point could not be misconstrued , and as it must be equally desirable to both to have every subordinate arrangement concluded as soon as possible , she now sent me , by a safe conveyance , all my letters , and requested , that if I could not directly command hers , so as to send them to Highbury within a week , I would forward them after that period to her at -- : in short , the full direction to Mr. Smallridge 's , near Bristol , stared me in the face .  Farmer Brown's boy opened his mouth and yelled !  I found them on the most friendly terms when I arrived . ''  Mr Elliot is evidently a disingenuous , artificial , worldly man , who has never had any better principle to guide him than selfishness . ''  The party was to be our brother and sister , Henry , John -- and Miss Smith .  It is to be a morning scheme , you know , Knightley ; quite a simple thing .  `` Ah !  Farmer Brown 's boy fished there too , sometimes , and this always made Little Joe and Billy Mink very angry , but they were so afraid of him that they did n't dare do anything about it .  Their engagements at Exeter instantly gave way before such an invitation , and Lady Middleton was thrown into no little alarm on the return of Sir John , by hearing that she was very soon to receive a visit from two girls whom she had never seen in her life , and of whose elegance , -- whose tolerable gentility even , she could have no proof ; for the assurances of her husband and mother on that subject went for nothing at all .  `` Edward 's love for me , '' said Lucy , `` has been pretty well put to the test , by our long , very long absence since we were first engaged , and it has stood the trial so well , that I should be unpardonable to doubt it now .  There is room in it for many people to pick berries all day without even seeing each other , unless they roam about a great deal .  `` That is true , '' cried Marianne , in a cheerful voice , and walking to the window as she spoke , to examine the day .  I never thought Edward so stubborn , so unfeeling before .  Here is excellent room for three , I assure you .  But at last there came a schame Intil his wicked head , And he tuk a great big bag And to his mither said , -- `` Now have the pot all bilin' Agin the time I come ; We 'll ate the small Rid Hin to-night , For shure I 'll bring her home . ''  Eleven !  Elinor , who foresaw a fairer opening for the point she had in view , in such a party as this was likely to be , more at liberty among themselves under the tranquil and well-bred direction of Lady Middleton than when her husband united them together in one noisy purpose , immediately accepted the invitation ; Margaret , with her mother 's permission , was equally compliant , and Marianne , though always unwilling to join any of their parties , was persuaded by her mother , who could not bear to have her seclude herself from any chance of amusement , to go likewise .  Here were funds of enjoyment .  It is the greatest absurdity -- Actually snowing at this moment ! -- The folly of not allowing people to be comfortable at home -- and the folly of people 's not staying comfortably at home when they can !  Name your day , and I will come .  Time , however , she thought , would tell him that they ought to be friends again .  I have taken some pains for your sake , and for Robert Martin 's sake , ( whom I have always had reason to believe as much in love with her as ever , ) to get acquainted with her .  Wolf !  Finally , his hand struck against something that felt like a saddle .  `` Some people imagine that there can be no accommodations , no space in a cottage ; but this is all a mistake .  Mr Elliot would do nothing , and she could do nothing herself , equally disabled from personal exertion by her state of bodily weakness , and from employing others by her want of money .  `` So seldom that any negligence or blunder appears !  The two front corners had canariensis in them .  `` Fifty thousand pounds , my dear .  And from his shiny head to his feet he was glad , through and through , because he was just little enough to be the nicest kind of tree in the world !  NURSE 'S SONG When the voices of children are heard on the green , And laughing is heard on the hill , My heart is at rest within my breast , And everything else is still .  But they learnt , on enquiry , that its possessor , an elderly lady of very good character , was unfortunately too infirm to mix with the world , and never stirred from home .  Her Bath habits made evening-parties perfectly natural to her , and Maple Grove had given her a taste for dinners .  Scarcely had she so determined it , when the figure of a man on horseback drew her eyes to the window .  She would be placed in the midst of those who loved her , and who had better sense than herself ; retired enough for safety , and occupied enough for cheerfulness .  `` I dare say you would ; but I , simple I , saw nothing but the fact , that Miss Fairfax was nearly dashed from the vessel and that Mr. Dixon caught her. -- It was the work of a moment .  If she has fancied otherwise , her own wishes have misled her , and I am very sorry -- extremely sorry -- But , Miss Smith , indeed ! -- Oh !  `` That fellow , '' said he , indignantly , `` thinks of nothing but shewing off his own voice .  The sight of Mrs Clay in such favour , and of Anne so overlooked , was a perpetual provocation to her there ; and vexed her as much when she was away , as a person in Bath who drinks the water , gets all the new publications , and has a very large acquaintance , has time to be vexed .  `` No , I did not promise .  When at last Buster lay down for a nap , Sammy flew away , chuckling to himself .  The ground seemed a terrible distance below .  said Mrs. John Knightley. -- `` It is so long since I have seen her , except now and then for a moment accidentally in town !  He did so , but very soon stopt again to say , `` the pianoforte !  but do not torture me so .  It was a dreadful picture of ingratitude and inhumanity ; and Anne felt , at some moments , that no flagrant open crime could have been worse .  In two minutes , however , he relented in his own favour ; and muttering something about spruce-beer , walked off .  `` I dare say she had . ''  To the former her raillery was probably , as far as it regarded only himself , perfectly indifferent ; but to the latter it was at first incomprehensible ; and when its object was understood , she hardly knew whether most to laugh at its absurdity , or censure its impertinence , for she considered it as an unfeeling reflection on the colonel 's advanced years , and on his forlorn condition as an old bachelor .  So upon that , he smirked , and simpered , and looked grave , and seemed to know something or other , and at last he said in a whisper , 'For fear any unpleasant report should reach the young ladies under your care as to their sister 's indisposition , I think it advisable to say , that I believe there is no great reason for alarm ; I hope Mrs. Dashwood will do very well . ' ''  She paused a moment to recover from the emotion of hearing herself so spoken of .  But it shall be regulated , it shall be checked by religion , by reason , by constant employment . ''  `` Ay , to be sure , I thought as much .  Willoughby 's behaviour in taking leave of them , his embarrassment , and affectation of cheerfulness , and , above all , his unwillingness to accept her mother 's invitation , a backwardness so unlike a lover , so unlike himself , greatly disturbed her .  But they always do , you know .  I wish I COULD get him a living , with all my heart. -- She calls me dear Mrs. Jennings , you see .  `` One would rather have a stranger preferred than one 's very particular friend -- with a stranger it might not recur again -- but the misery of having a very particular friend always at hand , to do every thing better than one does oneself ! -- Poor Mrs. Dixon !  He walked over to the place where the pail had been , and then he remembered that when Buster ran away he had carried the pail with him , hanging about his neck .  Then he ran to his clock-maker , but he could not do much .  He could meet even Lady Russell in a discussion of her merits ; and Anne could not be given to understand so much by her friend , could not know herself to be so highly rated by a sensible man , without many of those agreeable sensations which her friend meant to create .  That awful pail was proof of it .  `` Poor soul ! ''  Mr. Woodhouse very soon followed them into the drawing-room .  `` She loves him then excessively , I suppose .  Harriet blushed and smiled , and said something about wondering that people should like her so much .  We were only in anxiety and distress during the last two hours , and previously there had been a great deal of enjoyment .  You will be under the care of a motherly good sort of woman , of whose kindness to you I can have no doubt .  He began speaking of Harriet , and speaking of her with more voluntary praise than Emma had ever heard before .  They must both have suffered a great deal under such a system of secresy and concealment . ''  was the reply , and with a look of surprise .  Nothing but real indisposition could occasion this extraordinary delay .  Very unfeeling !  It was every day implied , but never professedly declared .  But she is really quite the gentlewoman . ''  she was in hysterics all yesterday .  She was accordingly more guarded , and more cool , than she had been the night before .  She was before me , constantly before me , as I travelled , in the same look and hue . ''  `` Gladly , '' said the great fairy ; `` choose what I shall give him .  They set off .  said I to a friend of mine who was standing near , ( Sir Basil Morley ) .  An egg boiled very soft is not unwholesome .  He began with great earnestness to entreat her to refrain from visiting the sick-chamber again , for the present -- to entreat her to _promise_ _him_ not to venture into such hazard till he had seen Mr. Perry and learnt his opinion ; and though she tried to laugh it off and bring the subject back into its proper course , there was no putting an end to his extreme solicitude about her .  My illness has made me think -- It has given me leisure and calmness for serious recollection .  Her spring of felicity was in the glow of her spirits , as her friend Anne 's was in the warmth of her heart .  `` Well , then , I know who it is from , Colonel .  said the king .  The something might be guessed by its effects .  One day he thought of a plan .  `` My dear Emma , I have told you what led me to think of it .  Give me joy : I have got rid of Sir Walter and Miss .  I never could comprehend how Mr. Weston could part with him .  `` Certainly , there can be no difference ; for Robert will now to all intents and purposes be considered as the eldest son ; -- and as to any thing else , they are both very agreeable young men : I do not know that one is superior to the other . ''  The two other gentlemen waited at the door to let her pass .  The woods and walks thickly covered with dead leaves . ''  `` It is to be a secret , I conclude , '' said he .  Her observation had been pretty correct .  Their one thought was , how could they safely do something to humiliate him .  A sudden seizure of a different nature from any thing foreboded by her general state , had carried her off after a short struggle .  my dear sir , her throat is so much better that I have hardly any uneasiness about it .  AH SUNFLOWER Ah Sunflower , weary of time , Who countest the steps of the sun ; Seeking after that sweet golden clime Where the traveller 's journey is done ; Where the Youth pined away with desire , And the pale virgin shrouded in snow , Arise from their graves , and aspire Where my Sunflower wishes to go !  Observe the turn of her throat .  We will not despair , however .  Anne could not refuse ; but never had she sacrificed to politeness with a more suffering spirit .  A few minutes more , and Emma hoped to see one troublesome companion deposited in his own house , to get sober and cool , and the other recover his temper and happiness when this visit of hardship were over .  very well , '' said Mrs. Jennings rather disappointed .  But in sorrow she must be equally carried away by her fancy , and as far beyond consolation as in pleasure she was beyond alloy .  That was the way with Buster Bear .  I guessed how it would end . ''  `` And is that all you can say for him ? ''  The tailor went forward next day , and the fox met him .  She was persuaded that any tolerably pleasing young woman who had listened and seemed to feel for him would have received the same compliment .  `` I would by no means speak disrespectfully of any relation of yours , madam .  Compare their manner of carrying themselves ; of walking ; of speaking ; of being silent .  And it can not be for the value of our custom now , for what is our consumption of bread , you know ?  `` Shall you be in town this winter , Miss Dashwood ? ''  The youthful infatuation of nineteen would naturally blind him to every thing but her beauty and good nature ; but the four succeeding years -- years , which if rationally spent , give such improvement to the understanding , must have opened his eyes to her defects of education , while the same period of time , spent on her side in inferior society and more frivolous pursuits , had perhaps robbed her of that simplicity which might once have given an interesting character to her beauty .  They will one day be Mr. Willoughby 's , and -- ''  But poor Harriet could not follow .  He took the little Jackal kindly on his back and started into the water .  Charming people , Mr. and Mrs. Weston ; -- Mrs. Weston indeed is much beyond praise , and he is exactly what one values , so hospitable , and so fond of society ; -- it will be a small party , but where small parties are select , they are perhaps the most agreeable of any .  Her narration was clear and simple ; and though it could not be given without emotion , it was not accompanied by violent agitation , nor impetuous grief. -- THAT belonged rather to the hearer , for Marianne listened with horror , and cried excessively .  Yes , yes !  I am quite determined to refuse him .  In the mental search for buried treasure which ensued , I came upon one or two word-impressions of the experiences of the Little Fir Tree , and forthwith wove them into what I supposed to be something of a reproduction of the original .  `` Ay , that we shall . ''  I was fatigued .  He would not speak another word to him , meet him where he might , for all the world !  Two steps , Jane , take care of the two steps .  If we feel for the wretched , enough to do all we can for them , the rest is empty sympathy , only distressing to ourselves . ''  He looked more than usually grave , and though expressing satisfaction at finding Miss Dashwood alone , as if he had somewhat in particular to tell her , sat for some time without saying a word .  With a faint blush , she presently replied ,  Mr. Woodhouse hesitated. -- '' Not near so often , my dear , as I could wish . ''  _Now_ , he said , he was beginning to have no longer the same wish .  His coldness and reserve mortified her severely ; she was vexed and half angry ; but resolving to regulate her behaviour to him by the past rather than the present , she avoided every appearance of resentment or displeasure , and treated him as she thought he ought to be treated from the family connection .  He was silent and grave .  Whether they were for white children or black , for Jews , Catholics , or Protestants , made no difference ; for Margaret always said , `` They are all orphans alike . ''  I have really a curiosity to see the person who can give occasion to such directly opposite notions .  `` Yes , yes , to the inn , '' repeated Captain Wentworth , comparatively collected , and eager to be doing something .  by the bye , '' then sinking his voice , and looking demure for the moment -- '' I hope Mr. Knightley is well ? ''  `` Oh !  What a silly idea !  they shouted ; and every one ran to look .  And the grey man was gone .  This is full proof undoubtedly ; proof of every thing you were saying .  I protest against having paid the smallest attention to any one else .  She played a great deal better than either of the Miss Musgroves , but having no voice , no knowledge of the harp , and no fond parents , to sit by and fancy themselves delighted , her performance was little thought of , only out of civility , or to refresh the others , as she was well aware .  My card was not lost , I hope . ''  Emma and Harriet had been walking together one morning , and , in Emma 's opinion , had been talking enough of Mr. Elton for that day .  I perfectly understand Mr Robinson 's directions , and have no fears ; and indeed , Mary , I can not wonder at your husband .  `` Then I 'll go to the woods , so that the animals may see me , '' said Little Jack .  A year and a half is the very utmost that they can have lived at West Hall ; and how they got their fortune nobody knows .  Ah !  `` Gout and decrepitude ! ''  She was mortified , shocked , confounded .  She opened the packet ; it was too surely so ; -- a note from Mrs. Weston to herself , ushered in the letter from Frank to Mrs. Weston .  he asked .  They were cheered by the joy of the servants on their arrival , and each for the sake of the others resolved to appear happy .  `` Remember that whatever your conjectures may be , you have no right to repeat them . ''  Elinor , catching all , and more than all , his fears in a moment , proposed to call in further advice .  She stood , light as air , on a great , shining , golden ball , which rolled along with her , swifter than the wind .  Lord !  Her manners were attaching , and soon banished his reserve .  If _we_ set the example , many will follow it as far as they can ; though all have not our situations .  Depend upon it , that is a circumstance which his servants take care to publish , wherever he goes .  `` I am very sorry to hear , Miss Fairfax , of your being out this morning in the rain .  I have known a good deal of the profession ; and besides their liberality , they are so neat and careful in all their ways !  Then the Little Fir Tree looked up , and called , -- `` Oh , please , dear wind , come down and play with me ! ''  -- As she said this , she sunk into a reverie for a few moments ; -- but rousing herself again , `` Now , Edward , '' said she , calling his attention to the prospect , `` here is Barton valley .  Everything united in him ; good understanding , correct opinions , knowledge of the world , and a warm heart .  It was very desirable that Lady Russell should be no longer deceived ; and one of the concluding arrangements of this important conference , which carried them through the greater part of the morning , was , that Anne had full liberty to communicate to her friend everything relative to Mrs Smith , in which his conduct was involved .  An ' thin she tarns around An ' looks be'ind the door ; There shtands the Fox wid his big tail Shpread out upon the floor .  Mr Elliot was better to look at than most men , and he had no objection to being seen with him anywhere . ''  Two ladies were waiting for their carriage , and one of them was giving the other an account of the intended match , in a voice so little attempting concealment , that it was impossible for me not to hear all .  The chances are that she must be a gainer . ''  you know who I mean . ''  Their being fixed , so absolutely fixed , in the same place , was bad for each , for all three .  She must be allowed to be a favourer of matrimony , you know ; and ( since self will intrude ) who can say that she may not have some flying visions of attending the next Lady Elliot , through Mrs Wallis 's recommendation ? ''  The Enscombe family were not in town quite so soon as had been imagined , but he was at Highbury very soon afterwards .  `` You were right , Little Joe !  He chuckled as if he thought it all a great joke and repeated his invitation to Little Joe to come and get his fish .  and there was a Mrs Wallis , at present known only to them by description , as she was in daily expectation of her confinement ; but Mr Elliot spoke of her as `` a most charming woman , quite worthy of being known in Camden Place , '' and as soon as she recovered they were to be acquainted .  It would be a _secret_ satisfaction ; but the consciousness of a similarity of prospect would certainly add to the interest with which she should attend to any thing Jane might communicate .  `` Well , well , I have that note ; and can shew it after dinner to convince Mr .  Mrs. Dashwood , not less watchful of what passed than her daughter , but with a mind very differently influenced , and therefore watching to very different effect , saw nothing in the Colonel 's behaviour but what arose from the most simple and self-evident sensations , while in the actions and words of Marianne she persuaded herself to think that something more than gratitude already dawned .  Now it 's mute !  `` If you had been a week later at Lisbon , last spring , Frederick , you would have been asked to give a passage to Lady Mary Grierson and her daughters . ''  `` There is hardly any desiring to refresh such a memory as _that_ , '' -- said Mr. Knightley , feelingly ; and for a moment or two he had done .  more ! ''  To know that _she_ thought his coming certain was enough to make Emma consider it so , and sincerely did she rejoice in their joy .  They all rose up in preparation for a round game .  Now was not it so ? -- You saw it all ; and was not you quite struck with it ? ''  HOW THE FIR TREE BECAME THE CHRISTMAS TREE When you stand round the Christmas tree and look longingly at the toys hanging from the prickly branches , it does not occur to you to ask why it is always this particular tree that is so honoured at Christmas .  `` And you must be off this very morning ? ''  `` I am much obliged to you , '' was her answer , `` but I am not going with them .  She had been used before to feel that he could not be always quite sincere , but now she saw insincerity in everything .  Emma found it really time to be at home ; the visit had already lasted long ; and on examining watches , so much of the morning was perceived to be gone , that Mrs. Weston and her companion taking leave also , could allow themselves only to walk with the two young ladies to Hartfield gates , before they set off for Randalls .  `` Indeed !  Grandmama was quite well , had a charming evening with Mr. Woodhouse , a vast deal of chat , and backgammon. -- Tea was made downstairs , biscuits and baked apples and wine before she came away : amazing luck in some of her throws : and she inquired a great deal about you , how you were amused , and who were your partners .  `` But have you never been anything different ? ''  By this time Buster Bear was in fine spirits .  The heat even would be danger. -- You are fatigued already . ''  `` I am perfectly satisfied of both . ''  Mr. Knightley was hard at work upon the lower buttons of his thick leather gaiters , and either the exertion of getting them together , or some other cause , brought the colour into his face , as he answered ,  She was obliged to leave the door ajar as she found it ; but she fully intended that Mr. Elton should close it .  Was not she like a daughter , his eldest daughter ? -- he must tell her ; and Miss Bates being present , it passed , of course , to Mrs. Cole , Mrs. Perry , and Mrs. Elton , immediately afterwards .  His bright proud eye spoke the conviction that he was nice ; and Anne Elliot was not out of his thoughts , when he more seriously described the woman he should wish to meet with .  He did not seem to want to be near enough for conversation .  `` Can you really ? ''  Mr. Knightley does nothing mysteriously . ''  You see , they had all been afraid of Farmer Brown 's boy for so long that they were tickled almost to pieces at the very thought of having some one in the Green Forest who could make Farmer Brown 's boy feel fear as they had felt it .  Colonel Campbell is a very agreeable man , and Mrs. Campbell a friendly , warm-hearted woman .  Such were my reasonings , as , in a sort of desperate carelessness , I copied my wife 's words , and parted with the last relics of Marianne .  This event , highly important to Mrs. Jennings 's happiness , produced a temporary alteration in the disposal of her time , and influenced , in a like degree , the engagements of her young friends ; for as she wished to be as much as possible with Charlotte , she went thither every morning as soon as she was dressed , and did not return till late in the evening ; and the Miss Dashwoods , at the particular request of the Middletons , spent the whole of every day , in every day in Conduit Street .  They were brought together by mutual affection , with the warmest approbation of their real friends ; their intimate knowledge of each other seemed to make their happiness certain -- and they only wanted something to live upon .  `` If I could but make their work easier , or give the hungry ones food , or the thirsty a drink ! ''  To have his love used so scornfully !  I treat you without ceremony , Mr. Knightley .  `` Mrs. Jennings told me , '' said he , `` that you wished to speak with me , at least I understood her so -- or I certainly should not have intruded on you in such a manner ; though at the same time , I should have been extremely sorry to leave London without seeing you and your sister ; especially as it will most likely be some time -- it is not probable that I should soon have the pleasure of meeting you again .  Do let me hear what she says . ' ''  This does not apply , however , to Miss Bates ; she is only too good natured and too silly to suit me ; but , in general , she is very much to the taste of every body , though single and though poor .  As soon as Mrs. Dashwood had recovered herself , to see Marianne was her first desire ; and in two minutes she was with her beloved child , rendered dearer to her than ever by absence , unhappiness , and danger .  Mark his professions to my poor husband .  cried Captain Wentworth , instantly , and with half a glance at Anne , `` it is the very man we passed . ''  He stopped in his earnestness to look the question , and the expression of his eyes overpowered her .  And then the Little Fir Tree began to see life .  I did not immediately recollect .  They might chuse to surprize her . ''  Elinor had met his eye , and looked conscious likewise .  CHAPTER 9  `` And how does dear , dear Norland look ? ''  He slept like the seven sleepers , and he dreamed the most beautiful things you could imagine .  `` Oh !  And she leaned back in the corner , to indulge her murmurs , or to reason them away ; probably a little of both -- such being the commonest process of a not ill-disposed mind .  no , no , Henry must have Donwell .  Mrs Musgrove had little arrangements of her own at her own table ; to their protection she must trust , and sinking into the chair which he had occupied , succeeding to the very spot where he had leaned and written , her eyes devoured the following words :  I can leave them at the Great House very well , for a month or six weeks .  Lucy came very shortly to claim Elinor 's compassion on being unable to see Edward , though he had arrived in town with Mr. and Mrs. Dashwood .  `` Piper , sit thee down and write In a book , that all may read . ''  He caught her . ''  She thought of her father , of Lady Russell .  Again they were both silent .  He certainly knew what was right , nor could she fix on any one article of moral duty evidently transgressed ; but yet she would have been afraid to answer for his conduct .  yes , I always like news .  My own self .  In her mother she lost the only person able to cope with her .  And Mr. Dixon seems a very charming young man , quite worthy of him .  And after the wise men had looked closely at them and read the magic letters which were cut upon their edge , they said that the millstones were precious indeed , since they would grind out of nothing anything that the miller might wish .  But next to honey give him berries .  How eloquent could Anne Elliot have been !  He was a great deal too full of the market to think of any thing else -- which is just as it should be , for a thriving man .  If the change be not from outward circumstances , it must be from within ; it must be nature , man 's nature , which has done the business for Captain Benwick . ''  At last , one night , this keeper was in great danger ; a tiger got loose , and attacked him .  `` Yes , very . ''  `` His fortune too ! -- for at my time of life you know , everybody cares about THAT ; -- and though I neither know nor desire to know , what it really is , I am sure it must be a good one . ''  Nobody could do much .  We owe Mrs. Jennings much more than civility ; and civility of the commonest kind must prevent such a hasty removal as that . ''  Mrs. Weston was looking so ill , and had an air of so much perturbation , that Emma 's uneasiness increased ; and the moment they were alone , she eagerly said ,  Miniatures , half-lengths , whole-lengths , pencil , crayon , and water-colours had been all tried in turn .  They were wretched together .  `` I always told you she was -- a little ; but you will soon overcome all that part of her reserve which ought to be overcome , all that has its foundation in diffidence .  `` Me !  .  Perhaps she pitied and esteemed him the more because he was slighted by Willoughby and Marianne , who , prejudiced against him for being neither lively nor young , seemed resolved to undervalue his merits .  `` 'T is because you are an indifferent person , '' said Lucy , with some pique , and laying a particular stress on those words , `` that your judgment might justly have such weight with me .  He wished him at the devil with all his heart .  I never shall forget his manner .  You do it very ill. Jane Fairfax mistress of the Abbey ! -- Oh !  It is not time or opportunity that is to determine intimacy ; -- it is disposition alone .  My dear Emma , suppose we all have a little gruel . ''  Anne felt that she should like to know who he was .  It looks as if my fishing is spoiled for to-day .  here 's Miss Woodhouse. -- Dear Miss Woodhouse , how do you do ? -- Very well I thank you , quite well .  Could he ever be tolerably happy with Lucy Steele ; could he , were his affection for herself out of the question , with his integrity , his delicacy , and well-informed mind , be satisfied with a wife like her -- illiterate , artful , and selfish ?  `` Hi ! ''  `` Ha , ha , ha !  The evil is now irremediable , and it has been entirely your own doing .  It was a bad business .  The most satisfactory comparisons were rising in her mind .  `` About a fortnight .  `` My dearest Harriet ! ''  In every meeting of the kind Willoughby was included ; and the ease and familiarity which naturally attended these parties were exactly calculated to give increasing intimacy to his acquaintance with the Dashwoods , to afford him opportunity of witnessing the excellencies of Marianne , of marking his animated admiration of her , and of receiving , in her behaviour to himself , the most pointed assurance of her affection .  `` Lord bless you , my dear ! -- Sure you do not mean to persuade me that the Colonel only marries you for the sake of giving ten guineas to Mr .  Songs and proverbs , all talk of woman 's fickleness .  replied Miss Bates .  In a low , cautious voice , he said : --  The change on Mrs. Elton 's side soon afterwards appeared , and she was left in peace -- neither forced to be the very particular friend of Mrs. Elton , nor , under Mrs. Elton 's guidance , the very active patroness of Jane Fairfax , and only sharing with others in a general way , in knowing what was felt , what was meditated , what was done .  And when one considers the variety of hands , and of bad hands too , that are to be deciphered , it increases the wonder . ''  I ought to have waited for official information , But now , my dear Miss Elliot , as an old friend , do give me a hint as to when I may speak .  --  She saw in a moment all the possible good .  However this morning he came just as we came home from church ; and then it all came out , how he had been sent for Wednesday to Harley Street , and been talked to by his mother and all of them , and how he had declared before them all that he loved nobody but Lucy , and nobody but Lucy would he have .  Do not leave me again .  `` So much the better -- or so much the worse : -- I do not know which .  .  That is just what happened the day that Buster Bear first thought of going berrying .  She could consult with her brother , could receive her sister-in-law on her arrival , and treat her with proper attention ; and could strive to rouse her mother to similar exertion , and encourage her to similar forbearance .  And Elizabeth , too .  There was no immediate appearance .  I immediately saw that there could be no difficulty in it , so I said , 'My dear Lady Elliott , do not be uneasy .  The Pope received his brothers and their trains in the square before Saint Peter 's .  And he braced his forefeet in the earth , and gave a tremendous pull .  The Little Fir Tree was very unhappy because he was not big like the others .  `` If only I had a good horse ! ''  Then something happened .  Where is your merit ?  and seemed almost ready to throw herself into his arms , when Colonel Brandon appeared .  As they approached Barton , indeed , and entered on scenes of which every field and every tree brought some peculiar , some painful recollection , she grew silent and thoughtful , and turning away her face from their notice , sat earnestly gazing through the window .  said she , with vexation .  Mrs. Palmer 's information respecting Willoughby was not very material ; but any testimony in his favour , however small , was pleasing to her .  She did not do any of it in the same way that she used ; I could see she was altered ; but , however , she seemed to _try_ to be very friendly , and we shook hands , and stood talking some time ; but I know no more what I said -- I was in such a tremble ! -- I remember she said she was sorry we never met now ; which I thought almost too kind !  Margery planned that , so that she could look into the garden from the front , but have it shut away from the vegetable patch by the tall flowers on the sides .  The walking party had crossed the lane , and were surmounting an opposite stile , and the Admiral was putting his horse in motion again , when Captain Wentworth cleared the hedge in a moment to say something to his sister .  He told me every thing ; his circumstances and plans , and what they all proposed doing in the event of his marriage .  Mrs. Weston was very ready to say how attentive and pleasant a companion he made himself -- how much she saw to like in his disposition altogether .  said Zelia .  And when she had opened it , she saw the child ; the poor baby was crying .  said he with a tender sigh , as he received it .  She had yet another reason for wishing her children to remain where they were ; a letter from her son-in-law had told her that he and his wife were to be in town before the middle of February , and she judged it right that they should sometimes see their brother .  I am very much mistaken if your sex in general would not think such beauty , and such temper , the highest claims a woman could possess . ''  was her immediate exclamation .  `` Well -- as you please ; only do n't have a great set out .  Emma was delighted , and only wanted him to go on in the same style ; but his mind was the next moment in his own concerns and with his own Jane , and his next words were ,  My dear Emma , we must consider this .  Mr. Knightley might quarrel with her , but Emma could not quarrel with herself .  Ah !  She instantly saw that her ears had not deceived her .  `` My dear Miss Woodhouse , a vast deal may be done by those who dare to act .  Dixon ! ''  She looked on with some amusement. -- Miss Bates 's gratitude for Mrs. Elton 's attentions to Jane was in the first style of guileless simplicity and warmth .  `` She said he was very agreeable the day he dined there .  The evening passed off in the equal indulgence of feeling .  was scarcely less warm than hers ; and whose mind -- Oh !  After staying with them half an hour , he asked Elinor to walk with him to Conduit Street , and introduce him to Sir John and Lady Middleton .  He tried to shake it off and could n't .  He was just thinking how lucky the City Mouse was , when suddenly the door opened with a bang , and in came the cook to get some flour .  `` I do not admire it , '' said Mr. Knightley .  Anne was startled and confused ; but after standing in a moment 's suspense , was obliged , and not sorry to be obliged , to hurry away .  As a counsellor she was not wanted ; but as an approver , ( a much safer character , ) she was truly welcome .  A man must be very much in love , indeed , to describe her so .  By and by he grinned .  He could not say that he was sorry on his own account ; his very cheerful look would have contradicted him if he had ; but he said , and very steadily , that he was sorry for the disappointment of the others , and with considerable kindness added ,  Mrs. John Dashwood said nothing ; but her husband civilly hoped that she would not be settled far from Norland .  I shall never forget it .  She was , of course , the object of their joint dislike. -- When they had nothing else to say , it must be always easy to begin abusing Miss Woodhouse ; and the enmity which they dared not shew in open disrespect to her , found a broader vent in contemptuous treatment of Harriet .  `` I should guess so , '' said Elinor , with a smile , `` from what I have witnessed this morning . ''  She had reason to believe her nearly recovered from her cold , and it was desirable that she should have as much time as possible for getting the better of her other complaint before the gentleman 's return .  For shame , Willoughby , can you wait for an invitation here ? ''  `` I will tell her all that is necessary to what may comparatively be called , your justification .  `` Dear me !  The present was that Captain Wentworth would move about well in her drawing-room .  About a mile and a half from the cottage , along the narrow winding valley of Allenham , which issued from that of Barton , as formerly described , the girls had , in one of their earliest walks , discovered an ancient respectable looking mansion which , by reminding them a little of Norland , interested their imagination and made them wish to be better acquainted with it .  As yet , you have seen nothing of Bath .  As Mrs. Weston observed , `` all young people would have their little whims . ''  You will look back and see that I did not come till Miss Fairfax was in Highbury ; and as _you_ were the person slighted , you will forgive me instantly ; but I must work on my father 's compassion , by reminding him , that so long as I absented myself from his house , so long I lost the blessing of knowing you .  For a few days , every morning visit in Highbury included some mention of the handsome letter Mrs. Weston had received .  But the little Gingerbread Boy laughed harder than ever , and ran like the wind .  My perpetual influence could not begin earlier , or you would not have been so much out of humour before . ''  She recommended it to her daughters , therefore , by all means not to shorten their visit to Mrs. Jennings ; the length of which , though never exactly fixed , had been expected by all to comprise at least five or six weeks .  where shall we sit ?  Anne felt truly obliged to her for such kindness ; and quite as much so for the opportunity it gave her of decidedly saying --  `` And who is Admiral Croft ? ''  and she and her partner the happiest ! -- '' I said it would be so , '' was the only consolation .  She is his principal correspondent , I assure you .  When I from black and he from white cloud free , And round the tent of God like lambs we joy I 'll shade him from the heat till he can bear To lean in joy upon our Father 's knee ; And then I 'll stand and stroke his silver hair , And be like him , and he will then love me .  I suppose , however -- on recollection -- that the case may probably be THIS .  weep !  Henry is the eldest , he was named after me , not after his father .  She then began to speak of you , and of the great kindness you had shewn her during her illness ; and with a blush which shewed me how it was all connected , desired me , whenever I had an opportunity , to thank you -- I could not thank you too much -- for every wish and every endeavour to do her good .  And even now , I can not comprehend on what motive she acted , or what fancied advantage it could be to her , to be fettered to a man for whom she had not the smallest regard , and who had only two thousand pounds in the world .  `` Do not be offended , Elinor , if my praise of him is not in every thing equal to your sense of his merits .  I have been acquainted with you by character many years .  He has imposed on me , but he has not injured me .  I do suspect he would not have had a pair of horses for himself , and that it was only as an excuse for assisting them . ''  Well , time does fly indeed ! -- and my memory is very bad .  So that broke up the bargain between them .  The little Jackal did n't have to be told who was underneath those bubbles : he took one quick look , and off he ran .  They were not off the Cobb , before the Harvilles met them .  It is something for a woman to be assured , in her eight-and-twentieth year , that she has not lost one charm of earlier youth ; but the value of such homage was inexpressibly increased to Anne , by comparing it with former words , and feeling it to be the result , not the cause of a revival of his warm attachment .  `` No , '' replied Anne , `` nor next week , nor next , nor next .  I had no hope of interfering with success ; and sometimes I thought your sister 's influence might yet reclaim him .  We must look for the change elsewhere . ''  Then Frode shook from head to foot in his terror , for he heard the tramp of a mighty host of warriors advancing from the sea .  Harriet would be loved as one to whom she could be useful .  CHAPTER XIII  I remembered what I used to do myself .  `` Westgate Buildings must have been rather surprised by the appearance of a carriage drawn up near its pavement , '' observed Sir Walter .  For a few minutes she saw nothing before her ; it was all confusion .  Emma laughed , and replied ,  Just then he heard a little noise , as if some one were coming .  So the Chamberlain went back to the Emperor and said , `` There is no such person . ''  He is so droll !  It was a pleasant fertile spot , well wooded , and rich in pasture .  no , no , no -- how can you suspect me of such a thing ?  Harriet was farther unfortunate in the tone of her companions at Mrs. Goddard 's ; Mr. Elton being the adoration of all the teachers and great girls in the school ; and it must be at Hartfield only that she could have any chance of hearing him spoken of with cooling moderation or repellent truth .  She turned her eyes towards his face , and found him with some surprise to be her brother .  She coloured deeply , and he recollected himself and moved away .  He insisted , moreover , on conveying all their letters to and from the post for them , and would not be denied the satisfaction of sending them his newspaper every day .  `` She taxed me with the offence at once , and my confusion may be guessed .  They made the barren land fertile by spreading water from the little streams over it , -- what we call `` irrigating '' ; and they planted enough corn and grain and vegetables for all the people .  Could there have been any unpleasant glances ?  A word was put in for a second young Cox ; and at last , Mr. Weston naming one family of cousins who must be included , and another of very old acquaintance who could not be left out , it became a certainty that the five couple would be at least ten , and a very interesting speculation in what possible manner they could be disposed of .  and his wife 's persuading him to it , out of care for his health -- just what will happen , I have no doubt , some time or other ; only a little premature .  `` Indeed , Ma'am , '' said Elinor , very seriously , `` you are mistaken .  His expensiveness is acknowledged even by himself , and his whole conduct declares that self-denial is a word hardly understood by him .  A submissive spirit might be patient , a strong understanding would supply resolution , but here was something more ; here was that elasticity of mind , that disposition to be comforted , that power of turning readily from evil to good , and of finding employment which carried her out of herself , which was from nature alone .  I have no thoughts of matrimony at present . ''  Smiles of intelligence passed between her and the gentleman on first glancing towards Miss Fairfax ; but it was most prudent to avoid speech .  Margaret agreed , and they pursued their way against the wind , resisting it with laughing delight for about twenty minutes longer , when suddenly the clouds united over their heads , and a driving rain set full in their face. -- Chagrined and surprised , they were obliged , though unwillingly , to turn back , for no shelter was nearer than their own house .  `` Wrong !  `` By feeling that I was doing my duty. -- My promise to Lucy , obliged me to be secret .  She could think of nothing better : and though there was something in it which her own heart could not approve -- something of ingratitude , merely glossed over -- it must be done , or what would become of Harriet ?  -- and `` Dear Miss Woodhouse , '' was all that Harriet , with many tender embraces could articulate at first ; but when they did arrive at something more like conversation , it was sufficiently clear to her friend that she saw , felt , anticipated , and remembered just as she ought .  You must have done well .  Thus a circumstance occurred , while the sisters were together in their own room after breakfast , which sunk the heart of Mrs. Jennings still lower in her estimation ; because , through her own weakness , it chanced to prove a source of fresh pain to herself , though Mrs. Jennings was governed in it by an impulse of the utmost goodwill .  The Hen-mother did not know what in the world to do with the queer little Half-Chick .  And that you should have been so mistaken , is amazing ! -- I am sure , but for believing that you entirely approved and meant to encourage me in my attachment , I should have considered it at first too great a presumption almost , to dare to think of him .  But not a bit did Walter stir .  Even now her self-command is invariable .  She need not trouble herself to pity him .  This was enough to make Lucy really and reasonably happy .  The manner , perhaps , may have as little to recommend them .  You will be too late if you do not make haste .  If she could not have been angry with Frank Churchill too , it would have been dreadful. -- As for Jane Fairfax , she might at least relieve her feelings from any present solicitude on her account .  And Little Jack Rollaround sailed his trundle-bed boat up the beam , through the keyhole , and into the street .  has he written to you ? ''  `` It is a very simple story .  Anne saw nothing , thought nothing of the brilliancy of the room .  I was the last man who commanded her .  And David ran , and stood upon the Philistine , and took his sword , and drew it out of its sheath , and slew him with it .  ought he not to have told me of it , to have given me the power of clearing myself ?  if you knew ! -- And can you believe me to be so , while I see you so wretched ! ''  He hoped she might make some amends for the many very plain faces he was continually passing in the streets .  You 'll find it pays . ''  Miss Woodhouse , I am quite concerned , I am sure you hit your foot .  Happy creature !  There they exchanged again those feelings and those promises which had once before seemed to secure everything , but which had been followed by so many , many years of division and estrangement .  `` Poor Mr. and Miss Woodhouse , if you please ; but I can not possibly say `poor Miss Taylor . '  I was startled , I confess , by the alteration in his manners this morning ; -- he did not speak like himself , and did not return your kindness with any cordiality .  THE LITTLE GIRL FOUND All the night in woe Lyca 's parents go Over valleys deep , While the deserts weep .  But I will not suppose this possible , and I hope very soon to receive your personal assurance of its being otherwise .  No , no ; she has qualities which may be trusted ; she will never lead any one really wrong ; she will make no lasting blunder ; where Emma errs once , she is in the right a hundred times . ''  that 's a great pity ; for I assure you , Miss Woodhouse , where the waters do agree , it is quite wonderful the relief they give .  how can you think of such a thing ?  At length Lucy exclaimed with a deep sigh ,  Miss Nash thinks either of the Coxes would be very glad to marry him . ''  The evil of the actual disparity in their ages ( and Mr. Woodhouse had not married early ) was much increased by his constitution and habits ; for having been a valetudinarian all his life , without activity of mind or body , he was a much older man in ways than in years ; and though everywhere beloved for the friendliness of his heart and his amiable temper , his talents could not have recommended him at any time .  How can you ? -- But the time will come I hope ... I am sure you will like him . ''  said she , in a whisper , to Elinor .  He might have been in Mr Elliot 's company , but she had not courage to ask the question .  `` For God 's sake tell me , is she out of danger , or is she not ? ''  I thought our judgments were given us merely to be subservient to those of neighbours .  She in the overflowing spirits of her recovery , repeats it all to her nurse ; and the nurse knowing my acquaintance with you , very naturally brings it all to me .  `` Colonel Wallis had been so impatient to be introduced to them !  Your uncle and aunt will never allow you to leave England . ''  `` I dare say your apologies were accepted , sir .  `` I shall never be easy till I have seen some of these places .  Mr. Elton looked all happiness at this proposition ; and nothing could exceed his alertness and attention in conducting them into his house and endeavouring to make every thing appear to advantage .  It is impossible . ''  The acorn was rolling down , with a soft tapping sound , ahead of him , so down he went too .  The Crofts will associate with them . ''  I hope , with all my heart , the young man may be a Weston in merit , and a Churchill in fortune. -- But Harriet Smith -- I have not half done about Harriet Smith .  He said so repeatedly ; other things he said too , which marked the turn of his feelings and gave the lie to his actions .  My father was certainly disposed to take very kind and proper notice of him .  Willoughby , `` poor Willoughby , '' as she now allowed herself to call him , was constantly in her thoughts ; she would not but have heard his vindication for the world , and now blamed , now acquitted herself for having judged him so harshly before .  He seemed not merely happy with her , but proud .  The Priest sat by and heard the child ; In trembling zeal he seized his hair , He led him by his little coat , And all admired the priestly care .  It is but natural that he should like to see her as well as ourselves . ''  Marianne , to the surprise of her sister , determined on dining with them .  That was your name for him , was it ? ''  `` Colonel Brandon 's character , '' said Elinor , `` as an excellent man , is well established . ''  She was nobody when he married her , barely the daughter of a gentleman ; but ever since her being turned into a Churchill she has out-Churchill 'd them all in high and mighty claims : but in herself , I assure you , she is an upstart . ''  And is no allowance to be made for inadvertence , or for spirits depressed by recent disappointment ?  But that wo n't do now-a-days ; nothing in the way of pleasure can ever be given up by the young men of this age . ''  `` For shame , for shame , Miss Dashwood !  They were again silent for many minutes .  they are eating the crickets !  There was a bustle on her approach ; a good deal of moving and talking .  Farmer Brown had laughed and laughed .  Elinor could not be cheerful .  Her attachment and regrets had , for a long time , clouded every enjoyment of youth , and an early loss of bloom and spirits had been their lasting effect .  He said , -- `` How strange that my little House does n't speak to me !  Peter Rabbit , sitting bolt upright under a thick hemlock branch , with eyes and ears wide open , held _his_ breath .  That was the kind action ; that was the noble benevolence and generosity ; that was the service which made me begin to feel how superior he was to every other being upon earth . ''  `` I have lately imagined that I saw symptoms of attachment between them -- certain expressive looks , which I did not believe meant to be public . ''  She happened to be quite alone .  Upon the whole , Emma left her with such softened , charitable feelings , as made her look around in walking home , and lament that Highbury afforded no young man worthy of giving her independence ; nobody that she could wish to scheme about for her .  The Willoughbys left town as soon as they were married ; and Elinor now hoped , as there could be no danger of her seeing either of them , to prevail on her sister , who had never yet left the house since the blow first fell , to go out again by degrees as she had done before .  take me with you ! ''  Once only , when she had been grieving over the last ill-judged , ill-fated walk to the Cobb , bitterly lamenting that it ever had been thought of , he burst forth , as if wholly overcome --  Anne will send for me if anything is the matter . ''  The first error and the worst lay at her door .  And Billy Mink , who had been watching , ate the fat trout .  She had been for three months her companion , was still under her care , and she was known to have been greatly injured , and long unhappy .  said he quietly , and looking at her ; `` of what nature ? ''  no -- I am grieved to find -- I was on the point of telling you that when I called at Mrs. Goddard 's door , which I did the very last thing before I returned to dress , I was told that Miss Smith was not better , by no means better , rather worse .  Vanity , while seeking its own guilty triumph at the expense of another , had involved him in a real attachment , which extravagance , or at least its offspring , necessity , had required to be sacrificed .  He coloured , seemed perplexed , looked doubtingly , and , after some hesitation , said , --  The sudden termination of Colonel Brandon 's visit at the park , with his steadiness in concealing its cause , filled the mind , and raised the wonder of Mrs. Jennings for two or three days ; she was a great wonderer , as every one must be who takes a very lively interest in all the comings and goings of all their acquaintance .  `` Both sir !  `Sixty , ' said I , `or perhaps sixty-two . '  The visit of ceremony was paid and returned ; and Louisa Musgrove was mentioned , and Captain Benwick , too , without even half a smile .  Her eye half met Captain Wentworth 's , a bow , a curtsey passed ; she heard his voice ; he talked to Mary , said all that was right , said something to the Miss Musgroves , enough to mark an easy footing ; the room seemed full , full of persons and voices , but a few minutes ended it .  `` O Earth , O Earth , return !  `` The profession has its utility , but I should be sorry to see any friend of mine belonging to it . ''  Wentworth ; Captain Wentworth of the navy .  Anne sighed and blushed and smiled , in pity and disdain , either at her friend or herself .  you would rather talk of her person than her mind , would you ?  First , as being the means of bringing persons of obscure birth into undue distinction , and raising men to honours which their fathers and grandfathers never dreamt of ; and secondly , as it cuts up a man 's youth and vigour most horribly ; a sailor grows old sooner than any other man .  He was so still that he looked almost like the stump of an old tree .  And while they were in the midst of their banqueting , the door was suddenly burst open , and the Dagda stood there , with his men .  After laying out for some compliments of being deeply regretted in their old neighbourhood , which Anne could not pay , they had only a few faint enquiries to make , before the talk must be all their own .  But the day did not close so auspiciously as it began. -- Towards the evening Marianne became ill again , growing more heavy , restless , and uncomfortable than before .  He ventured among them again , however , though his spirits certainly did not seem fit for the mirth of the party in general .  Concession must be out of the question ; but it was time to appear to forget that they had ever quarrelled ; and she hoped it might rather assist the restoration of friendship , that when he came into the room she had one of the children with her -- the youngest , a nice little girl about eight months old , who was now making her first visit to Hartfield , and very happy to be danced about in her aunt 's arms .  This day will the Lord deliver thee into my hand , and I will smite thee , and take thy head from thee , and I will give the carcasses of the host of the Philistines this day unto the fowls of the air , and to the wild beasts of the earth , that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel !  What say you both to our collecting the same party , and exploring to Box Hill again , while the fine weather lasts ? -- It must be the same party , you know , quite the same party , not _one_ exception . ''  `` I know it is '' -- replied her mother seriously , `` or after such a warning , I should be the last to encourage such affection , or even to be pleased by it .  Mrs Smith would hardly have believed so soon in Mr Elliot 's failure , but from the perception of there being a somebody else .  All that could be done was , to sit down at that end of the counter which seemed to promise the quickest succession ; one gentleman only was standing there , and it is probable that Elinor was not without hope of exciting his politeness to a quicker despatch .  He received the kindest welcome from her ; and shyness , coldness , reserve could not stand against such a reception .  I was told that they wished it .  He had cleverly touched the prince 's worst trait , his pride .  Frank 's was the first idea ; and his the greatest zeal in pursuing it ; for the lady was the best judge of the difficulties , and the most solicitous for accommodation and appearance .  Ah !  Because they neither flattered herself nor her children , she could not believe them good-natured ; and because they were fond of reading , she fancied them satirical : perhaps without exactly knowing what it was to be satirical ; but THAT did not signify .  Thus much indeed he was obliged to acknowledge : that he had been constant unconsciously , nay unintentionally ; that he had meant to forget her , and believed it to be done .  and he passed his hand across his eyes , as if the remembrance were still too painful , but in a moment , half smiling again , added , `` The day has produced some effects however ; has had some consequences which must be considered as the very reverse of frightful .  Weston , tell me at once. -- Something has happened in Brunswick Square .  A bed on the floor in Louisa 's room would be sufficient for her , if Mrs Harville would but think so . ''  Sir Walter thought much of Mrs Wallis ; she was said to be an excessively pretty woman , beautiful .  `` Well , well , go and play till the light fades away , And then go home to bed . ''  no ; Perry shall have all the credit . ''  said Charles Musgrove , and `` No , no ! ''  `` Sir , '' said Mr. Woodhouse , rather warmly , `` you are very much mistaken if you suppose Mr. Perry to be that sort of character .  So I said I would go down and see , and Jane said , `Shall I go down instead ?  And I am sure I should not have the smallest fear of trusting YOU ; indeed , I should be very glad of your advice how to manage in such and uncomfortable situation as I am ; but , however , there is no occasion to trouble YOU .  You , my mother , and Margaret , must henceforth be all the world to me ; you will share my affections entirely between you .  THE ANGEL I dreamt a dream !  `` I assure you it is not in my power . ''  He knows the value of a good income as well as any body .  Their time and strength , and spirits , were , therefore , exactly ready for this walk , and they entered into it with pleasure .  To do what would be most generally pleasing must be our object -- if one could but tell what that would be . ''  but why so ? -- I can hardly imagine that any thing which pleases or amuses you , should not please and amuse me too . ''  Mrs. Dashwood had been informed by her husband of the solemn promise on the part of his son in their favour , which gave comfort to his last earthly reflections .  `` My poor dear Harriet !  If in that light there is anything which you suppose his cousin might fairly ask of him , I beg you would not hesitate to employ me . ''  Their preparations , however , were stopped short .  I have not nerves for the sort of thing . ''  He had not time to enter into much explanation .  She was now met by Mrs .  `` I would rather have young people settle on a small income at once , and have to struggle with a few difficulties together , than be involved in a long engagement .  She has abilities , however , as well as affections ; and it is now a doubtful point whether his cunning , or hers , may finally carry the day ; whether , after preventing her from being the wife of Sir Walter , he may not be wheedled and caressed at last into making her the wife of Sir William .  ( turning to Emma . )  And that was the end of the Tortoise .  He was not only to quit his home , but to see it in the hands of others ; a trial of fortitude , which stronger heads than Sir Walter 's have found too much .  The half hour was chatted away pleasantly enough ; and she was not at all surprised at the end of it , to have their walking party joined by both the Miss Musgroves , at Mary 's particular invitation .  Elinor looked surprised at his emotion ; but trying to laugh off the subject , she said to him , `` Do not you know my sister well enough to understand what she means ?  Nothing so easy as for a young lady to raise her expectations too high .  Then , one day , the wish once more came , to know how his work was growing , and once more he prayed that he might see a being -- `` Whose soul in the heavenly grace had grown To the selfsame measure as his own ; Whose treasure on the celestial shore Could neither be less than his nor more . ''  He looked down on all the Great World and saw all that was going on .  -- Women may be as comfortable on board , as in the best house in England .  Why had not Miss Woodhouse revived the former good old days of the room ? -- She who could do any thing in Highbury !  `` On your side , my love , it was very innocently done .  I wonder what it can be !  I am extremely happy .  A very decent shot , and there is not a bolder rider in England . ''  But in order to keep the little dog from growing , the queen ordered that he should be fed very little , and that was pretty hard for the poor prince .  There is to be no form or parade -- a sort of gipsy party .  So , I give you notice , Lady Russell . ''  `` Do you ? -- I have no doubt .  Edward said very little ; but what he did say , was in the most determined manner .  Emma , alone with her father , had half her attention wanted by him while he lamented that young people would be in such a hurry to marry -- and to marry strangers too -- and the other half she could give to her own view of the subject .  But whether I should write this apology , or deliver it in person , was a point of long debate .  The fox began to run faster , and the little Gingerbread Boy ran faster , and as he ran he chuckled , -- `` I have run away from a little old woman , `` A little old man , `` A cow , `` A horse , `` A barn full of threshers , `` A field full of mowers , `` And I can run away from you , I can !  Anne named them all .  `` To be sure -- our discordancies must always arise from my being in the wrong . ''  So I begged he would not -- for really as to ours being gone , I could not absolutely say that we had a great many left -- it was but half a dozen indeed ; but they should be all kept for Jane ; and I could not at all bear that he should be sending us more , so liberal as he had been already ; and Jane said the same .  He is a brave fellow .  But when satisfied on all these points , and their acquaintance proportionably advanced , he contrived to find an opportunity , while their two fathers were engaged with each other , of introducing his mother-in-law , and speaking of her with so much handsome praise , so much warm admiration , so much gratitude for the happiness she secured to his father , and her very kind reception of himself , as was an additional proof of his knowing how to please -- and of his certainly thinking it worth while to try to please her .  `` Perhaps , '' said Mr Elliot , speaking low , `` I have had a longer acquaintance with your character than you are aware of . ''  `` That is to say , you chose to have your walk , for you were not six yards from your own door when I had the pleasure of meeting you ; and Henry and John had seen more drops than they could count long before .  Elinor , affected by his relation , and still more by his distress , could not speak .  He opened the doors carefully and stood back , peering into the darkness .  That was his motive for drawing back , I can assure you .  one never thinks of married men 's being beaux -- they have something else to do . ''  That , I thought , in a man of known musical talent , was some proof . ''  She was so great , so majestic , that men and animals were awe-struck at the sight ; the trees and the grasses bowed before her ; yet all the earth-creatures felt that she meant them well .  I know it is safe out there nodding all alone , and next summer it will hold ripe berries up for me to gather again . '' ' ''  There was no resisting such news , no possibility of avoiding the influence of such a happy face as Mr. Weston 's , confirmed as it all was by the words and the countenance of his wife , fewer and quieter , but not less to the purpose .  `` Oh !  Miss Bates would hardly give Emma time to say how perfectly new this circumstance was to her ; but as without supposing it possible that she could be ignorant of any of the particulars of Mr. Frank Churchill 's going , she proceeded to give them all , it was of no consequence .  I will have nothing to do with it .  Mr. Elton knows you . ''  They must be separated ; but there was a great deal of pain in the process -- so much to herself at this time , that she soon felt the necessity of a little consolation , and resolved on going home by way of Randalls to procure it .  That 's right .  I have more than half an expectation of our all going abroad .  Mama , the more I know of the world , the more am I convinced that I shall never see a man whom I can really love .  Anne will stay ; Anne undertakes to stay at home and take care of him .  Or how shall we gather what griefs destroy , Or bless the mellowing year , When the blasts of winter appear ?  `` What shall we have in it ? ''  I wish my health allowed me to be a better neighbour .  `` Six years hence !  Anne , satisfied at a very early period of Lady Russell 's meaning to love Captain Wentworth as she ought , had no other alloy to the happiness of her prospects than what arose from the consciousness of having no relations to bestow on him which a man of sense could value .  Without that attraction , not all her money would have tempted Elliot , and Sir Walter was , moreover , assured of her having been a very fine woman .  `` When all was dark and still , I stole like a cat to where she lay bound .  Within the first five minutes I said , `I will be at Bath on Wednesday , ' and I was .  no , it is a meeting at the Crown , a regular meeting .  How are your neighbours at the Great House ? ''  Mrs. Weston and Emma tried earnestly to cheer him and turn his attention from his son-in-law , who was pursuing his triumph rather unfeelingly .  `` What two letters ! -- express perfection !  But this was what had happened .  They had previously known embarrassments enough to try the friendship of their friends , and to prove that Mr Elliot 's had better not be tried ; but it was not till his death that the wretched state of his affairs was fully known .  LONDON I wandered through each chartered street , Near where the chartered Thames does flow , A mark in every face I meet , Marks of weakness , marks of woe .  And the Philistine came on and drew near to David ; and the man that bore his shield went before him .  Mary had had her evils ; but upon the whole , as was evident by her staying so long , she had found more to enjoy than to suffer .  Affecting that air of playfulness , therefore , which is delightful in a woman one loves , she opened the letter directly , and read its contents .  Come on ! ''  Is he a man of fortune ? ''  `` If a woman can ever be excused for thinking only of herself , it is in a situation like Jane Fairfax's. -- Of such , one may almost say , that `the world is not their 's , nor the world 's law . ' ''  `` I suspect , '' said Elinor , `` that to avoid one kind of affectation , Edward here falls into another .  I had allowed her , ( imprudently , as it has since turned out , ) at her earnest desire , to go to Bath with one of her young friends , who was attending her father there for his health .  I 've made a mistake . ''  `` But , however , ONE thing must be considered .  To him who has , it might not be so easy to burst forth at once into perfect independence , and set all their claims on his gratitude and regard at nought .  `` I must not hope to be ever situated as you are , in the midst of every dearest connexion , and therefore I can not expect that simply growing older should make me indifferent about letters . ''  A LITTLE BOY LOST `` Nought loves another as itself , Nor venerates another so , Nor is it possible to thought A greater than itself to know .  They were all three walking about together for an hour or two -- first round the shrubberies of Hartfield , and afterwards in Highbury .  She saw that Enscombe could not satisfy , and that Highbury , taken at its best , might reasonably please a young man who had more retirement at home than he liked .  He _had_ despaired at one period ; he had received such an injunction to caution and silence , as for the time crushed every hope ; -- she had begun by refusing to hear him. -- The change had perhaps been somewhat sudden ; -- her proposal of taking another turn , her renewing the conversation which she had just put an end to , might be a little extraordinary ! -- She felt its inconsistency ; but Mr. Knightley was so obliging as to put up with it , and seek no farther explanation .  There will not be time for any thing . ''  It helped him keep his balance and keep from turning over and over .  The others had been talking of the child , Mrs. Weston giving an account of a little alarm she had been under , the evening before , from the infant 's appearing not quite well .  David looked to see what the trouble was , and he saw a strange sight : down the slope of the opposite mountain came striding a Philistine warrior , calling out something in a taunting voice ; he was a gigantic man , the largest David had ever seen , and he was covered with armour , that shone in the sun : he had a helmet of brass upon his head , and he was armed with a coat of mail , and he had greaves of brass upon his legs , and a target of brass between his shoulders ; his spear was so tremendous that the staff of it was like a weaver 's beam , and his shield so great that a man went before him , to carry it .  I am sure she is very good -- I hope she will be very happy .  ON ANOTHER 'S SORROW Can I see another 's woe , And not be in sorrow too ?  And before she was beyond the first stage of full sensation , Charles , Mary , and Henrietta all came in .  He went rolling criss-cross , up and down , all over the sky , knocking into the planets and stumbling into the clouds , till he did not know where he was .  I am sure he has not the least idea of it .  as we pass , however .  Their conversation was soon afterwards closed by the entrance of her father .  Do take it to your sister . ''  Emma began to listen better .  Anne 's shudderings were to herself alone ; but the Miss Musgroves could be as open as they were sincere , in their exclamations of pity and horror .  She had been thinking all this time about what she should do , and now she carried out her plan .  Frosts will soon set in , and in all probability with severity .  But now she is of age and may choose for herself ; and a pretty choice she has made ! -- What now , '' after pausing a moment -- '' your poor sister is gone to her own room , I suppose , to moan by herself .  They ate until they were gorged , and then they flew heavily back to the lake , only to come again with new appetite .  `` Marianne can never keep long from that instrument you know , ma'am , '' said Elinor , endeavouring to smooth away the offence ; `` and I do not much wonder at it ; for it is the very best toned piano-forte I ever heard . ''  They made the wee clothes as dainty as could be , with nice little stitches and pretty buttons ; and by Christmas time , they were finished .  She had already been obliged to tell Lady Russell that Louisa Musgrove was to marry Captain Benwick .  That would be so very painful a conclusion of their present acquaintance !  `` Oh !  `` But every thing of that kind , '' said Emma , `` will soon be in so regular a train -- ''  But I too have been thinking over the past , and a question has suggested itself , whether there may not have been one person more my enemy even than that lady ?  I would not think of disturbing you . ''  `` Please stop , little Gingerbread Boy , '' said the horse , `` you look very good to eat . ''  They walked thither directly .  While she was gone , Mr. Knightley called , and sat some time with Mr. Woodhouse and Emma , till Mr. Woodhouse , who had previously made up his mind to walk out , was persuaded by his daughter not to defer it , and was induced by the entreaties of both , though against the scruples of his own civility , to leave Mr. Knightley for that purpose .  While waiting for the carriage , she found Mr. Knightley by her side .  Little Joe Otter found that out when he took Grandfather Frog 's advice .  She would not marry , even if she were asked by Mr. Knightley .  She got up to examine them .  My first displays the wealth and pomp of kings , Lords of the earth !  He has been running after them , too , long enough , one would think , to make up his mind .  `` The Churchills are very likely in fault , '' said Mr. Knightley , coolly ; `` but I dare say he might come if he would . ''  He does not give the least fling at Benwick ; does not so much as say , `I wonder at it , I have a reason of my own for wondering at it . '  `` But indeed you must and shall come .  What was to be done ?  It has been , it is a most cruel affliction .  Two days of joyful security were immediately followed by the over-throw of every thing .  `` I was going to observe , sir , '' said Frank Churchill , `` that one of the great recommendations of this change would be the very little danger of any body 's catching cold -- so much less danger at the Crown than at Randalls !  Two material advantages of Bath over London had of course been given all their weight : its more convenient distance from Kellynch , only fifty miles , and Lady Russell 's spending some part of every winter there ; and to the very great satisfaction of Lady Russell , whose first views on the projected change had been for Bath , Sir Walter and Elizabeth were induced to believe that they should lose neither consequence nor enjoyment by settling there .  `` No , Edward , I should have something else to do with it . ''  Her gestures and movements might be understood by any one who looked on like Emma ; but her words , every body 's words , were soon lost under the incessant flow of Miss Bates , who came in talking , and had not finished her speech under many minutes after her being admitted into the circle at the fire .  Emma longed to know what Frank 's first opinion of Mrs. Elton might be ; how he was affected by the studied elegance of her dress , and her smiles of graciousness .  If we CAN but put Willoughby out of her head ! ''  What you direct in this house can not be wrong .  `` You forget , '' said Elinor gently , `` that its situation is not ... that it is not in the neighbourhood of ... ''  she repeated , surprised at his being so long in the same county with Elinor without seeing her before .  I do not consider myself at all a fortunate person . ''  It seemed as if some one must have stolen it , or as if the farmer had been wandering in his wits .  Use your own discretion , however , in communicating to her what I have told you .  The clock struck eight .  Willoughby thought the same ; and their behaviour at all times , was an illustration of their opinions .  He , her father , a well-meaning , but not a quick-sighted man , could really , I believe , give no information ; for he had been generally confined to the house , while the girls were ranging over the town and making what acquaintance they chose ; and he tried to convince me , as thoroughly as he was convinced himself , of his daughter 's being entirely unconcerned in the business .  Look at those hills !  His profession was all that could ever make her friends wish that tenderness less , the dread of a future war all that could dim her sunshine .  Blacky beat his wings fiercely and started after Sammy .  Oh !  `` A sore-throat ! -- I hope not infectious .  He would grind his teeth and glare up at them , but that was all he could do .  he begged .  -- `` They are both gone up to the church to pray .  He promised to join me here , and pay his respects to you . ''  `` It is a matter of great joy to me ; and I feel the goodness of Colonel Brandon most sensibly .  The little Country Mouse liked the taste so much that he could hardly nibble fast enough .  But in time they will .  I mean in person -- tall , and with that sort of look -- and not very talkative . ''  Frank Churchill caught the name .  `` What ?  Mrs. Weston would be at ease .  Emma felt that she could not do too much for her , that Harriet had a right to all her ingenuity and all her patience ; but it was heavy work to be for ever convincing without producing any effect , for ever agreed to , without being able to make their opinions the same .  Lady Russell had not been arrived five minutes the day before , when a full account of the whole had burst on her ; but still it must be talked of , she must make enquiries , she must regret the imprudence , lament the result , and Captain Wentworth 's name must be mentioned by both .  Ever since the first pink blush of dawn , the modest Dewdrop had gazed fixedly down upon the rich gem , but feared to address a person of such exalted consequence .  `` Doesn't that make him a thief ? ''  The time was coming when the news must spread farther , and other persons ' reception of it tried .  He was a nervous man , easily depressed ; fond of every body that he was used to , and hating to part with them ; hating change of every kind .  `` I did , '' said Elinor , with a composure of voice , under which was concealed an emotion and distress beyond any thing she had ever felt before .  But all at once , someone called out , -- `` No , no !  `` Oh !  `` I can not make speeches , Emma : '' he soon resumed ; and in a tone of such sincere , decided , intelligible tenderness as was tolerably convincing. -- '' If I loved you less , I might be able to talk about it more .  `` Oh !  Her countenance , perhaps , might express some watchfulness ; but the praise of the fine mind did not appear to excite a thought in her sister .  His was an involuntary confidence , an irrepressible effusion to a soothing friend -- not an application to a parent .  `` She was very much honoured , and should be happy in their acquaintance . ''  Elinor confirmed it .  This was bad enough , but to make matters worse , just at that very minute he heard a shrill , angry voice shout , `` Hi , there !  `` Ah wish Brer Bear would go up to Farmer Brown 's henhouse and scare Farmer Brown 's boy so that he would keep away from there .  MY happiness never was his object . ''  Only give me a carte-blanche. -- I am Lady Patroness , you know .  Pretty soon she had worked so hard that she had some money saved from her wages .  Part only of this answer , however , was admitted .  My wife should have the credit of them , however .  The music was so loud that he awoke .  With these supports , she hoped that the acquaintance between herself and the Crofts , which , with Lady Russell , still resident in Kellynch , and Mary fixed only three miles off , must be anticipated , need not involve any particular awkwardness .  The landed property of Hartfield certainly was inconsiderable , being but a sort of notch in the Donwell Abbey estate , to which all the rest of Highbury belonged ; but their fortune , from other sources , was such as to make them scarcely secondary to Donwell Abbey itself , in every other kind of consequence ; and the Woodhouses had long held a high place in the consideration of the neighbourhood which Mr. Elton had first entered not two years ago , to make his way as he could , without any alliances but in trade , or any thing to recommend him to notice but his situation and his civility. -- But he had fancied her in love with him ; that evidently must have been his dependence ; and after raving a little about the seeming incongruity of gentle manners and a conceited head , Emma was obliged in common honesty to stop and admit that her own behaviour to him had been so complaisant and obliging , so full of courtesy and attention , as ( supposing her real motive unperceived ) might warrant a man of ordinary observation and delicacy , like Mr. Elton , in fancying himself a very decided favourite .  He shone with all his beams on the man's shoulders .  -- Those were the words ; in them lay the tormenting ideas which Emma could not get rid of , and which constituted the real misery of the business to her .  CHAPTER VII  But no one knew who it was that brought the beautiful feeling .  Vanity , extravagance , love of change , restlessness of temper , which must be doing something , good or bad ; heedlessness as to the pleasure of his father and Mrs. Weston , indifferent as to how his conduct might appear in general ; he became liable to all these charges .  His own enjoyment , or his own ease , was , in every particular , his ruling principle . ''  When the little City Mouse sat down to dinner he was surprised to find that the Country Mouse had nothing to eat except barley and grain .  Neither more nor less than his being in love with Louisa , and not choosing to venture to Uppercross till he had had an answer from Mr Musgrove ; for it was all settled between him and her before she came away , and he had written to her father by Captain Harville .  In the water he saw his own terrible image ; he had the head of a lion , with bull 's horns , the feet of a wolf , and a tail like a serpent .  `` And is Mrs. Smith your only friend ?  But she had an almost instant doubt of his caring for her as he had done , of his feeling the same tenderness in the same degree .  Had you witnessed my behaviour there , I can hardly suppose you would ever have thought well of me again .  The grey man touched each one of the ten little fingers , and as he touched them he said their names : `` Little Thumb ; Forefinger ; Thimble-finger ; Ring-finger ; Little Finger ; Little Thumb ; Forefinger ; Thimble-finger ; Ring-finger ; Little Finger ! ''  Lady Middleton had sent a very civil message by him , denoting her intention of waiting on Mrs. Dashwood as soon as she could be assured that her visit would be no inconvenience ; and as this message was answered by an invitation equally polite , her ladyship was introduced to them the next day .  `` You know what you are about . ''  Mary knew , from Charles 's manner of speaking , that he was quite determined on going , and that it would be of no use to teaze him .  `` You and I , Sir John , '' said Mrs. Jennings , `` should not stand upon such ceremony . ''  But poor Mrs Clay who , with all her merits , can never have been reckoned tolerably pretty , I really think poor Mrs Clay may be staying here in perfect safety .  Such a heart is very little worth having ; is it , Lady Russell ?  `` My Emma ! ''  I am sure I am not extravagant in my demands .  Mr. Knightley grew angry .  She had been very fond of her husband : she had buried him .  Buster sat down and scratched his head .  I am quite ready .  `` I am not supposing him at all an unnatural creature , in suspecting that he may have learnt to be above his connexions , and to care very little for any thing but his own pleasure , from living with those who have always set him the example of it .  When his letter to Mrs. Weston arrived , Emma had the perusal of it ; and she read it with a degree of pleasure and admiration which made her at first shake her head over her own sensations , and think she had undervalued their strength .  Here too , Miss Dashwood 's commendation , being only simple and just , came in without any eclat .  `` All right , '' said his mean old mother ; and she stood close by the boiling kettle , ready to put the cover on .  A little upstart , vulgar being , with her Mr. E. , and her _caro_ _sposo_ , and her resources , and all her airs of pert pretension and underbred finery .  Raspberries , blackberries , or blueberries , either kind , will make him perfectly happy .  He was only wrong in accepting the attentions ( for accepting must be the word ) of two young women at once .  `` Does nothing occur to you ? -- Do not you recollect ? -- Harriet Smith . ''  She had called on her former governess , and had heard from her of there being an old school-fellow in Bath , who had the two strong claims on her attention of past kindness and present suffering .  I do not know whether he has any design of ingratiating himself with either of us , Harriet , by additional softness , but it strikes me that his manners are softer than they used to be .  We returned unwounded , and the meeting , therefore , never got abroad . ''  She had left the instrument on the dancing being over , and he had sat down to try to make out an air which he wished to give the Miss Musgroves an idea of .  I remember her aunt very well , Biddy Henshawe ; she married a very wealthy man .  `` He fancied that if he went with us , he should find you close by : he fancied everybody to be living in Uppercross ; and when he discovered that Lady Russell lived three miles off , his heart failed him , and he had not courage to come .  The weather soon improved enough for those to move who must move ; and Mr. Woodhouse having , as usual , tried to persuade his daughter to stay behind with all her children , was obliged to see the whole party set off , and return to his lamentations over the destiny of poor Isabella ; -- which poor Isabella , passing her life with those she doated on , full of their merits , blind to their faults , and always innocently busy , might have been a model of right feminine happiness .  I have engaged Mrs. Weston to correspond with me .  `` He is a person I never think of from one month 's end to another , '' said Mr. Knightley , with a degree of vexation , which made Emma immediately talk of something else , though she could not comprehend why he should be angry .  With a great deal of quiet observation , and a knowledge , which she often wished less , of her father 's character , she was sensible that results the most serious to his family from the intimacy were more than possible .  They must speak of the accident at Lyme .  yes , gloves and every thing .  How they were all to be conveyed , he would have made a difficulty if he could , but as his son and daughter 's carriage and horses were actually at Hartfield , he was not able to make more than a simple question on that head ; it hardly amounted to a doubt ; nor did it occupy Emma long to convince him that they might in one of the carriages find room for Harriet also .  Other poultry-yards in the neighbourhood also suffered. -- Pilfering was _housebreaking_ to Mr. Woodhouse 's fears. -- He was very uneasy ; and but for the sense of his son-in-law 's protection , would have been under wretched alarm every night of his life .  Oh no !  This card-room would be wanted as a card-room now ; or , if cards were conveniently voted unnecessary by their four selves , still was it not too small for any comfortable supper ?  I am sure I never suspected it , you did it so naturally . ''  `` Well , I always shall think that you play quite as well as she does , or that if there is any difference nobody would ever find it out .  `` Or that he did not give her the use of their own instrument -- which must now be shut up in London , untouched by any body . ''  `` And I am sure I should never want to go there ; for I am never happy but at Hartfield . ''  no -- far from it -- certainly plain .  `` My protege , as you call him , is a sensible man ; and sense will always have attractions for me .  `` Highbury gossips ! -- Tiresome wretches ! ''  She blessed the favouring blindness .  Edward was the first to speak , and it was to notice Marianne 's altered looks , and express his fear of her not finding London agree with her .  And as to conceit , he is the farthest from it of any man I know .  `` You think her diffident .  Such schemes as these are nothing without numbers .  So the Brahmin , the Tiger , and the little Jackal walked back together to the spot where the cage was .  But I am determined to set for it the very first opportunity . ''  On the contrary it was a relief to her , to be spared the communication of what would give such affliction to them , and to be saved likewise from hearing that condemnation of Edward , which would probably flow from the excess of their partial affection for herself , and which was more than she felt equal to support .  It was the answer to the communication of his intended marriage .  At last Anne was at home again , and happier than any one in that house could have conceived .  And touching Miss Bates , who at that moment passed near -- '' Miss Bates , are you mad , to let your niece sing herself hoarse in this manner ?  The sexes sprang from shame and pride , Blown in the morn , in evening died ; But mercy changed death into sleep ; The sexes rose to work and weep .  How long it had been carrying on between them , however , he was equally at a loss with herself to make out ; for at Oxford , where he had remained for choice ever since his quitting London , he had had no means of hearing of her but from herself , and her letters to the very last were neither less frequent , nor less affectionate than usual .  What 's this ? ''  Oh no !  Elinor looked at him with greater astonishment than ever .  People of the name of Tupman , very lately settled there , and encumbered with many low connexions , but giving themselves immense airs , and expecting to be on a footing with the old established families .  Mrs. Ferrars was the most unfortunate of women -- poor Fanny had suffered agonies of sensibility -- and he considered the existence of each , under such a blow , with grateful wonder .  And with this admirable discretion did she defer the assurance of her finding their mutual relatives more disagreeable than ever , and of her being particularly disgusted with his mother , till they were more in private .  `` Mrs. Weston 's manners , '' said Emma , `` were always particularly good .  roll ! ''  `` I mean , '' -- said he , with serious energy -- '' if I can , to make you hate me one degree less than you do NOW .  Page _71_ . ]  `` And are they going farther westward ? ''  `` Certainly I could have none .  No doubt it had been from jealousy. -- In Jane 's eyes she had been a rival ; and well might any thing she could offer of assistance or regard be repulsed .  `` Oh !  Mamma says HE was in love with your sister too. -- I assure you it was a great compliment if he was , for he hardly ever falls in love with any body . ''  Palmer ? ''  `` I have been more pained , '' said she , `` by her endeavors to acquit him than by all the rest ; for it irritates her mind more than the most perfect conviction of his unworthiness can do .  But this conciliation was not granted ; for though she often threw out expressions of pity for her sister to Elinor , and more than once dropt a reflection on the inconstancy of beaux before Marianne , no effect was produced , but a look of indifference from the former , or of disgust in the latter .  Then what did those cunning little Jackals do but take hold of hands and run up towards the Lion , as if they had meant to come all the time .  Mr Shepherd was all gratitude .  But is it possible that you had no suspicion ? -- I mean of late .  She mentioned nothing of what she had heard , or what she intended , at home .  `` My dear Jane , say no more about it .  And the Diamond sparkled and gleamed with vivid , violet flashes , so that the Beetle was glad to shade his eyes .  He was just climbing up the bank with the fat trout in his mouth .  My affection for Marianne , my thorough conviction of her attachment to me -- it was all insufficient to outweigh that dread of poverty , or get the better of those false ideas of the necessity of riches , which I was naturally inclined to feel , and expensive society had increased .  But you have not an idea of what is requisite in situations directly opposite to your own .  Instead he carefully laid it on an old log where Buster Bear would be sure to see it if he should come along that way .  `` My dear , '' said he to his lady , `` it is very provoking that we should be so few .  She remained in her seat , and so did Lady Russell ; but she had the pleasure of getting rid of Mr Elliot ; and she did not mean , whatever she might feel on Lady Russell 's account , to shrink from conversation with Captain Wentworth , if he gave her the opportunity .  Anne had always felt that she would pretend what was proper on her arrival , but the complaisance of the others was unlooked for .  The past was nothing .  `` Your command ? -- Yes . ''  Mine , I confess , are exhausted .  Uppercross was a moderate-sized village , which a few years back had been completely in the old English style , containing only two houses superior in appearance to those of the yeomen and labourers ; the mansion of the squire , with its high walls , great gates , and old trees , substantial and unmodernized , and the compact , tight parsonage , enclosed in its own neat garden , with a vine and a pear-tree trained round its casements ; but upon the marriage of the young 'squire , it had received the improvement of a farm-house elevated into a cottage , for his residence , and Uppercross Cottage , with its veranda , French windows , and other prettiness , was quite as likely to catch the traveller 's eye as the more consistent and considerable aspect and premises of the Great House , about a quarter of a mile farther on .  `` I would n't _not_ take care of it for anything ! ''  Now all around , behind trees and stumps , and under thick branches , and even in tree tops , were other little people watching with round , wide-open eyes to see what would happen .  Acquit me here , and procure for me , when it is allowable , the acquittal and good wishes of that said Emma Woodhouse , whom I regard with so much brotherly affection , as to long to have her as deeply and as happily in love as myself. -- Whatever strange things I said or did during that fortnight , you have now a key to .  The weeping child could not be heard , The weeping parents wept in vain : They stripped him to his little shirt , And bound him in an iron chain , And burned him in a holy place Where many had been burned before ; The weeping parents wept in vain .  The Camel was perfectly willing , so the little Jackal jumped on his back , and the Camel swam across the river , carrying him .  With some there was great joy at the sight of Frank Churchill ; others took it very composedly ; but there was a very general distress and disturbance on Miss Fairfax 's disappearance being explained .  There was deep consciousness about him , and he found it easier to meet her eye than her friend 's .  Mr. Weston must be quiet , and every thing deliberately arranged .  `` Emma , my love , you said that this circumstance would not now make you unhappy ; but I am afraid it gives you more pain than you expected .  after the note I sent him this morning , and the message he returned , that he should certainly be at home till one . ''  You got Hannah that good place .  Then he went along the beach till he came to the Whale .  Smiles on thee , on me , on all , Who became an infant small ; Infant smiles are his own smiles ; Heaven and earth to peace beguiles .  And so they reached the edge of the Green Forest , Buster Bear running as hard as ever he could , Sammy Jay flying just behind him and screaming , `` Thief , thief , thief ! ''  She wanted it to be prescribed , and felt as a duty .  I shall never reflect on my former acquaintance with your family in Devonshire without the most grateful pleasure , and flatter myself it will not be broken by any mistake or misapprehension of my actions .  `` What is the matter now ? ''  'THERE , to be sure , ' said she , 'I might have thought myself safe . '  Lord !  Knightley must not marry ! -- You would not have little Henry cut out from Donwell ? -- Oh !  `` Increase ! ''  `` May I help ? ''  `` The Crown ! ''  She sighed for the air , the liberty , the quiet of the country ; and fancied that if any place could give her ease , Barton must do it .  Emma could not resist .  He is an excellent young man , both as son and brother .  But at last a day came when the Lion was nearer still and the little mother Jackal was frightened almost to death .  Night is worn , And the morn Rises from the slumbrous mass .  Your business can not be with ME .  I doubt whether he will return the compliment , and discover her to be a lady .  Let me return your congratulations. -- I assure you that I have heard the news with the warmest interest and satisfaction. -- He is a man whom I can not presume to praise . ''  Now tell me true , _I'd_ run the best I could .  Careless of her happiness , thinking only of my own amusement , giving way to feelings which I had always been too much in the habit of indulging , I endeavoured , by every means in my power , to make myself pleasing to her , without any design of returning her affection . ''  Why they should not openly acknowledge to her mother and herself , what their constant behaviour to each other declared to have taken place , Elinor could not imagine .  Is he not a man of honour and feeling ?  I am sure it was a source of high entertainment to you , to feel that you were taking us all in. -- Perhaps I am the readier to suspect , because , to tell you the truth , I think it might have been some amusement to myself in the same situation .  I am advised to be out of doors as much as I can , I must walk somewhere , and the post-office is an object ; and upon my word , I have scarcely ever had a bad morning before . ''  CHAPTER 44  I have not the least idea of his being a weak young man : I feel sure that he is not .  she must confess to herself that she was not wise yet .  They met for the sake of eating , drinking , and laughing together , playing at cards , or consequences , or any other game that was sufficiently noisy .  He had a wife .  But the case is altered now .  `` You would not have gone , however , '' said Elinor , recovering herself , and determined to get over what she so much dreaded as soon as possible , `` without receiving our good wishes , even if we had not been able to give them in person .  Anne , far from wishing to cavil at the pleasure , replied , `` I can easily believe it .  It is his companion all this evening , his solace , his delight .  The Tortoise forgot everything except that she wanted to say , `` Hush , you foolish people ! ''  If , indeed , it could be restored to our poor little boy -- ''  It makes one detest all one 's acquaintance .  `` Yes , to be sure , I suppose there are .  I have done with match-making indeed .  They came from the Old Orchard , the Green Meadows , and even down by the Smiling Pool , for the voices of Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow carried far , and at the sound of them everybody hurried over , sure that something exciting was going on .  `` I had a few lines on parish business from Mr. Weston this morning , and at the end of them he gave me a brief account of what had happened . ''  I think they judge wisely .  `` Yis , that I will '' ; an ' thin The shtone wint in wid a dash , An ' the pot o ' bilin ' wather Came over them ker-splash .  Sir Walter made no objection , and Elizabeth did nothing worse than look cold and unconcerned .  `` I am not yet so much changed , '' cried Anne , and stopped , fearing she hardly knew what misconstruction .  You are not afraid of being supposed ashamed .  `My dear , ' said I , `I shall say you are laid down upon the bed : ' but , however , she is not ; she is walking about the room .  But even this encouragement failed , for he would go ; and Lucy , who would have outstaid him , had his visit lasted two hours , soon afterwards went away .  And how suffer him to leave her without saying one word of gratitude , of concurrence , of common kindness !  No -- till Cole alluded to my supposed attachment , it had never entered my head .  Such language for a young man entirely dependent , to use ! -- Nobody but you , Mr. Knightley , would imagine it possible .  She had never received from her more than outward attention , nothing beyond the observances of complaisance ; had never succeeded in any point which she wanted to carry , against previous inclination .  It would excite no proper interest there .  `` You know her disposition , and may believe how eagerly she would still justify him if she could . ''  Another accidental meeting with the Martins was possible , and in her present state , would be dangerous .  You will find me a very awkward narrator , Miss Dashwood ; I hardly know where to begin .  To separate Edward and Elinor was as far from being her object as ever ; and she wished to show Mrs. John Dashwood , by this pointed invitation to her brother , how totally she disregarded her disapprobation of the match .  `` Harriet , I will not affect to be in doubt of your meaning .  THAT was due to the folly of Robert , and the cunning of his wife ; and it was earned by them before many months had passed away .  Marianne was quite subdued. --  We seemed to understand each other .  They had a wonderful , wise father , who knew stories to tell , and who taught them their lessons in such a beautiful way that it was better than play ; they had a lovely , merry , kind mother , who was never too tired to help them work or watch them play ; and they had all the great green country to play in .  `` Brandon is just the kind of man , '' said Willoughby one day , when they were talking of him together , `` whom every body speaks well of , and nobody cares about ; whom all are delighted to see , and nobody remembers to talk to . ''  Ever since the service he rendered Jane at Weymouth , when they were out in that party on the water , and she , by the sudden whirling round of something or other among the sails , would have been dashed into the sea at once , and actually was all but gone , if he had not , with the greatest presence of mind , caught hold of her habit -- ( I can never think of it without trembling ! )  Nothing should prevail on him to give up his engagement .  She could never see a fault in any of them .  There was nothing like flirtation between her and her partner .  You are burning me to death !  The rooms were shut up , the lodgers almost all gone , scarcely any family but of the residents left ; and , as there is nothing to admire in the buildings themselves , the remarkable situation of the town , the principal street almost hurrying into the water , the walk to the Cobb , skirting round the pleasant little bay , which , in the season , is animated with bathing machines and company ; the Cobb itself , its old wonders and new improvements , with the very beautiful line of cliffs stretching out to the east of the town , are what the stranger 's eye will seek ; and a very strange stranger it must be , who does not see charms in the immediate environs of Lyme , to make him wish to know it better .  I am very much afraid that it will all end in nothing .  So he blew , and he blew , a mighty blast , and the bubbles rose in a perfect whirlpool , fizzing and swirling .  `` But , Mr. Knightley , she is really very sorry to lose poor Miss Taylor , and I am sure she _will_ miss her more than she thinks for . ''  As soon as the real leaves come out and begin to draw food from the air , these little substitutes wither up and fall off .  He was not hungry ; it would only make him hotter . ''  `` Something very melancholy must be the matter , I am sure , '' said she .  No , you shall send it to Hartfield , if you please .  I need a change .  To finish the interest of the story , the friendship between him and the Harvilles seemed , if possible , augmented by the event which closed all their views of alliance , and Captain Benwick was now living with them entirely .  But they are Lady Middleton 's visitors .  If I were to marry , I must expect to repent it . ''  she cried with a most open eagerness -- '' Never , for the twentieth part of a moment , did such an idea occur to me .  Emma seriously hoped she would .  Why , Little Joe Otter to be sure .  He did not know what they had best do .  But he always locked the door after him , and carried away the key .  Miss Woodhouse , I hope nothing may happen to prevent the ball .  If _she_ had so misinterpreted his feelings , she had little right to wonder that _he_ , with self-interest to blind him , should have mistaken hers .  `` Even some of the trees look like this when they first come through ; you would not think a birch tree could look like a vegetable or a flower , would you ?  `` As to all that , '' rejoined Sir Walter coolly , `` supposing I were induced to let my house , I have by no means made up my mind as to the privileges to be annexed to it .  cried Emma , turning her glowing cheeks towards him ; for , while she spoke , it occurred to her that he might have called at Mrs. Goddard 's in his way .  He ran and ran until he came to a field full of mowers .  And I must say this : that you owe no particular gratitude to him , nor attention to his wishes ; for we very well know that if he could , he would have left almost everything in the world to THEM . ''  He flew to her shoulder , caressed her hair with his beak , and cooed in her ear .  You know nothing of drawing .  Luckily Lady Middleton 's mother had arrived at Barton within the last hour , and as she was a very cheerful agreeable woman , he hoped the young ladies would not find it so very dull as they might imagine .  for , if we had met first in the drawing-room , I doubt whether you would have discerned me to be more of a gentleman than usual. -- You might not have distinguished how I came , by my look or manner . ''  THE FAIRIES Up the airy mountain , Down the rushy glen , We dare n't go a-hunting For fear of little men .  `` Jane Fairfax is absolutely charming , Miss Woodhouse. -- I quite rave about Jane Fairfax. -- A sweet , interesting creature .  But a week must pass ; only a week , in Anne 's reckoning , and then , she supposed , they must meet ; and soon she began to wish that she could feel secure even for a week .  So then she winds it , shiny brown , Around her head into a crown , Just like the day before .  `` You certainly will meet them if I can prevail ; and I shall call on Miss Bates in my way home . ''  Happy to find that she was not suspected of any extraordinary interest in it ; that Mrs. Jennings ( as she had of late often hoped might be the case ) had ceased to imagine her at all attached to Edward ; and happy above all the rest , in the absence of Marianne , she felt very well able to speak of the affair without embarrassment , and to give her judgment , as she believed , with impartiality on the conduct of every one concerned in it .  Why does not Perry see her ? ''  Disappointed , however , and vexed as she was , and sometimes displeased with his uncertain behaviour to herself , she was very well disposed on the whole to regard his actions with all the candid allowances and generous qualifications , which had been rather more painfully extorted from her , for Willoughby 's service , by her mother .  For a little while Emma persevered in her silence ; but beginning to apprehend the bewitching flattery of that letter might be too powerful , she thought it best to say ,  Oh , said I , my dear , I did say as much as I could .  By a most fortunate chance his leaving Highbury had been delayed so as to bring him to her assistance at this critical moment .  Of course they must attend .  said the little Tulip .  When she was half-way up the set , the whole group were exactly behind her , and she would no longer allow her eyes to watch ; but Mr. Elton was so near , that she heard every syllable of a dialogue which just then took place between him and Mrs. Weston ; and she perceived that his wife , who was standing immediately above her , was not only listening also , but even encouraging him by significant glances. -- The kind-hearted , gentle Mrs. Weston had left her seat to join him and say , `` Do not you dance , Mr .  `` Pray , '' said Mrs Smith , `` is Mr Elliot aware of your acquaintance with me ?  His manners were an immediate recommendation ; and on conversing with him she found the solid so fully supporting the superficial , that she was at first , as she told Anne , almost ready to exclaim , `` Can this be Mr Elliot ? ''  He came to speak to his father on a subject , -- to announce an attachment -- ''  When he had gone some distance the little Half-Chick came to a little brook that was caught in the weeds and in much trouble .  Is Allenham the only house in the neighbourhood to which you will be welcome ?  `` The evil of the distance from Enscombe , '' said Mr. Weston , `` is , that Mrs. Churchill , _as_ _we_ _understand_ , has not been able to leave the sofa for a week together .  dear ; I was so miserable !  Could Elinor have listened to her without interruption from the others , she would have described every room in the house with equal delight .  Vigorous , decided , with sentiments to a certain point , not coarse .  `` How d ' ye do ? -- how d 'ye do ? -- Very well , I thank you .  She had been a friend and companion such as few possessed : intelligent , well-informed , useful , gentle , knowing all the ways of the family , interested in all its concerns , and peculiarly interested in herself , in every pleasure , every scheme of hers -- one to whom she could speak every thought as it arose , and who had such an affection for her as could never find fault .  Oh !  The Baronet will never set the Thames on fire , but there seems to be no harm in him . ''  I am afraid you must have suffered from the shock , and the more from its not overpowering you at the time . ''  CHARADE .  The answer was only in this short note :  But Mrs. Smith must be obliged ; -- and her business will not detain you from us long I hope . ''  Will you promise me to mention it , when you see them again ?  John Knightley only was in mute astonishment. -- That a man who might have spent his evening quietly at home after a day of business in London , should set off again , and walk half a mile to another man 's house , for the sake of being in mixed company till bed-time , of finishing his day in the efforts of civility and the noise of numbers , was a circumstance to strike him deeply .  Whatever the truth of it might be , and far as Elinor was from feeling thorough contentment about it , yet while she saw Marianne in spirits , she could not be very uncomfortable herself .  CHAPTER 4  Walk home ! -- you are prettily shod for walking home , I dare say .  `` Did not you hear him complain of the rheumatism ?  There was no sign of anyone having been there .  He has encouragement enough to proceed , without our sighing out our souls over this charade . ''  He was too angry to say another word ; her manner too decided to invite supplication ; and in this state of swelling resentment , and mutually deep mortification , they had to continue together a few minutes longer , for the fears of Mr. Woodhouse had confined them to a foot-pace .  Her sleep , though not so quiet as Elinor wished to see it , lasted a considerable time ; and anxious to observe the result of it herself , she resolved to sit with her during the whole of it .  After a few moments ' chat , John Dashwood , recollecting that Fanny was yet uninformed of her sister 's being there , quitted the room in quest of her ; and Elinor was left to improve her acquaintance with Robert , who , by the gay unconcern , the happy self-complacency of his manner while enjoying so unfair a division of his mother 's love and liberality , to the prejudice of his banished brother , earned only by his own dissipated course of life , and that brother 's integrity , was confirming her most unfavourable opinion of his head and heart .  Sammy 's cousin , Blacky the Crow , just happened to be flying along the edge of the Old Pasture , and the minute he heard Sammy 's voice , he turned and flew over to see what it was all about .  But a day spent in sitting shivering over the fire with a book in her hand , which she was unable to read , or in lying , weary and languid , on a sofa , did not speak much in favour of her amendment ; and when , at last , she went early to bed , more and more indisposed , Colonel Brandon was only astonished at her sister 's composure , who , though attending and nursing her the whole day , against Marianne inclination , and forcing proper medicines on her at night , trusted , like Marianne , to the certainty and efficacy of sleep , and felt no real alarm .  Jane often says , when she is here , `I am sure , grandmama , you must have had very strong eyes to see as you do -- and so much fine work as you have done too ! -- I only wish my eyes may last me as well . ' ''  His appearance was very neat , and he looked like a sensible young man , but his person had no other advantage ; and when he came to be contrasted with gentlemen , she thought he must lose all the ground he had gained in Harriet 's inclination .  really , never ! -- Bless me !  Mr Elliot 's speech , too , distressed her .  `` You saw her answer ! -- you wrote her answer too .  `` But , in spite of all her friends ' urgency , and her own wish of seeing Ireland , Miss Fairfax prefers devoting the time to you and Mrs .  The house belonged to people in business .  This woman of whom he writes -- whoever she be -- or any one , in short , but your own dear self , mama , and Edward , may have been so barbarous to bely me .  The unhappiness produced by the knowledge of that engagement had been a little put aside by Elizabeth Martin 's calling at Mrs. Goddard 's a few days afterwards .  We none of us expect to be in smooth water all our days . ''  I hate to hear of women on board , or to see them on board ; and no ship under my command shall ever convey a family of ladies anywhere , if I can help it . ''  Nobody , who has not been in the interior of a family , can say what the difficulties of any individual of that family may be .  She acknowledged it to be very fitting , that every little social commonwealth should dictate its own matters of discourse ; and hoped , ere long , to become a not unworthy member of the one she was now transplanted into .  they cried .  `` Hunters ! ''  This however was more than she could believe herself ; and to be composed at such a moment was not only beyond the reach of Marianne , it was beyond her wish .  `` One more ; -- they would not fatigue Miss Fairfax on any account , and would only ask for one more . ''  `` That conviction must be every thing to you ; and he is undoubtedly supported by the same trust in your 's .  A gentleman carrying a gun , with two pointers playing round him , was passing up the hill and within a few yards of Marianne , when her accident happened .  `` What is the matter ? ''  `` Where does he come from ?  It was a great comfort to her to be sure of exciting no interest in ONE person at least among their circle of friends : a great comfort to know that there was ONE who would meet her without feeling any curiosity after particulars , or any anxiety for her sister 's health .  Emma was very compassionate ; and the distresses of the poor were as sure of relief from her personal attention and kindness , her counsel and her patience , as from her purse .  `` How do you like shank 's pony ? ''  He is totally beyond the reach of any sentiment of justice or compassion .  `` Do not be alarmed , '' said Miss Dashwood , `` nothing of the kind will be done ; for my mother will never have money enough to attempt it . ''  Her opinion varying with every fresh conjecture , and all seeming equally probable as they arose .  A few moments ' reflection , however , produced a very happy idea , and she exclaimed ; --  replied Charles , `` what 's an evening party ?  At last , one day , a publisher asked Louisa , who was now a woman , to write a book for girls .  It was a good scheme ; but on driving to the door they heard that neither `` master nor mistress was at home ; '' they had both been out some time ; the man believed they were gone to Hartfield .  A better written letter , Harriet ( returning it , ) than I had expected . ''  To me , she was in the place of a parent .  It was very wrong of me , you know , to keep any remembrances , after he was married .  There are not many men who would act as he has done .  A few years before , Anne Elliot had been a very pretty girl , but her bloom had vanished early ; and as even in its height , her father had found little to admire in her , ( so totally different were her delicate features and mild dark eyes from his own ) , there could be nothing in them , now that she was faded and thin , to excite his esteem .  By his description , a good deal like the second size double-barrel of mine , which you shot with one day round Winthrop . ''  She was afraid something would happen to it , and she tried hard to protect it and keep it from harm .  `` Then , '' cried Mrs. Jennings with blunt sincerity , no longer able to be silent , `` he has acted like an honest man !  We are so very airy !  It was , indeed .  Nor could she leave the place in which Willoughby remained , busy in new engagements , and new schemes , in which SHE could have no share , without shedding many tears .  But this does not acquit _him_ , Mrs. Weston ; and I must say , that I think him greatly to blame .  This nut , '' he continued , with playful solemnity , `` while so many of his brethren have fallen and been trodden under foot , is still in possession of all the happiness that a hazel nut can be supposed capable of . ''  His good sense and good principles would delight you. -- As far as the man is concerned , you could not wish your friend in better hands .  I am only afraid of your sitting up for me .  We three shall be able to go very well in my chaise ; and when we are in town , if you do not like to go wherever I do , well and good , you may always go with one of my daughters .  I wonder if there are any fat little crabs in the water to-day ? ''  Are you speaking of -- Mr .  Anything was possible , anything might be defied rather than suspense .  That , from such a quarter , one might expect .  She was as happy as possible with the Martins in the summer .  I am not in the least ashamed of my meaning . ''  They had n't any little girls or any little boys , at all .  Greatness will not make me so . ''  But that it was so , had not only been declared by Lucy 's eyes at the time , but was declared over again the next morning more openly , for at her particular desire , Lady Middleton set her down in Berkeley Street on the chance of seeing Elinor alone , to tell her how happy she was .  Their house was undoubtedly the best in Camden Place ; their drawing-rooms had many decided advantages over all the others which they had either seen or heard of , and the superiority was not less in the style of the fitting-up , or the taste of the furniture .  How very odd !  And as it is some months since Miss Campbell married , the impression may be a little worn off . ''  Mrs Charles Musgrove will , of course , wish to get back to her children ; but if Anne will stay , no one so proper , so capable as Anne . ''  No , indeed , Miss Woodhouse , you need not be afraid ; I can sit and admire him now without any great misery .  `` Upon my word , '' replied Elinor , `` you know much more of the matter than I do , if you have any reason to expect such a match . ''  You left nothing undone .  The Dagda , with two or three of his warriors , had followed hard on their track .  Never worth remembering .  Mary does not above half like Henrietta 's match .  Nobody is healthy in London , nobody can be .  `` Never mind if they do .  `` Yes , '' he replied gravely , `` once I have .  `` Yes , '' said his brother quickly , `` it is Randalls that does it all . ''  At last , one day , there came a little package to the Emperor , on the outside of which was written , `` The Nightingale . ''  It was , indeed , a highly prized letter .  They arrived , the carriage turned , the step was let down , and Mr. Elton , spruce , black , and smiling , was with them instantly .  I shall be no support to Mrs. Weston .  Anne was so impressed by the degree of their danger , that she could not excuse herself from trying to make it perceptible to her sister .  I , and only I , knew your heart and its sorrows ; yet to what did it influence me ? -- not to any compassion that could benefit you or myself. -- Your example was before me ; but to what avail ? -- Was I more considerate of you and your comfort ?  Ah !  Had Mrs. Dashwood , like her daughter , heard Willoughby 's story from himself -- had she witnessed his distress , and been under the influence of his countenance and his manner , it is probable that her compassion would have been greater .  `` Such an eye ! -- the true hazle eye -- and so brilliant !  `` There is no denying it , '' he replied .  Marianne was in every respect materially better , and he declared her entirely out of danger .  She could not but smile to see the graciousness of both mother and daughter towards the very person -- for Lucy was particularly distinguished -- whom of all others , had they known as much as she did , they would have been most anxious to mortify ; while she herself , who had comparatively no power to wound them , sat pointedly slighted by both .  His appearance is so much against him , and his manner so bad , that if she ever were disposed to favour him , she is not now .  `` Have you an agreeable neighbourhood here ?  `` The Admiralty , '' he continued , `` entertain themselves now and then , with sending a few hundred men to sea , in a ship not fit to be employed .  says Fox , `` we 'll see ; I 'll bring yees down from that . ''  screamed Sammy , and flew away .  You , Miss Woodhouse , I well know , play delightfully .  She was born to overcome an affection formed so late in life as at seventeen , and with no sentiment superior to strong esteem and lively friendship , voluntarily to give her hand to another ! -- and THAT other , a man who had suffered no less than herself under the event of a former attachment , whom , two years before , she had considered too old to be married , -- and who still sought the constitutional safeguard of a flannel waistcoat !  At the end of another day or two , Marianne growing visibly stronger every twelve hours , Mrs. Dashwood , urged equally by her own and her daughter 's wishes , began to talk of removing to Barton .  `` Do n't talk to me about heirs and representatives , '' cried Charles .  Every year since my coming of age , or even before , I believe , had added to my debts ; and though the death of my old cousin , Mrs. Smith , was to set me free ; yet that event being uncertain , and possibly far distant , it had been for some time my intention to re-establish my circumstances by marrying a woman of fortune .  Every day people came to see the sweet Babe , bringing presents in their hands .  she _shall_ _not_ do such a thing again , '' eagerly rejoined Mrs. Elton .  she repeated to herself again and again , in nervous gratitude .  But ah !  On earth it grew hotter and hotter ; the sun burned down so fiercely that the people were fainting in its rays ; it seemed as if they must die of heat , and yet they were obliged to go on with their work , for they were very poor .  `` Mrs. Palmer appeared quite well , and I am commissioned to tell you , that you will certainly see her to-morrow . ''  If Jane does not get well soon , we will call in Mr. Perry .  Your neighbourhood is increasing , and you mix more with it .  As he spoke , he heard the voices of the monks singing , _He hath put down the mighty from their seat_ , -- and his head sank lower .  It was not forced on you .  Now it just happened that early as he was , some one was before Buster Bear .  She had no such object for her lingering thoughts to fix on , she left no creature behind , from whom it would give her a moment 's regret to be divided for ever , she was pleased to be free herself from the persecution of Lucy 's friendship , she was grateful for bringing her sister away unseen by Willoughby since his marriage , and she looked forward with hope to what a few months of tranquility at Barton might do towards restoring Marianne 's peace of mind , and confirming her own .  Instead of pushing his fortune in the line marked out for the heir of the house of Elliot , he had purchased independence by uniting himself to a rich woman of inferior birth .  The latter , though unable to speak , seemed to feel all the tenderness of this behaviour , and after some time thus spent in joint affliction , she put all the letters into Elinor 's hands ; and then covering her face with her handkerchief , almost screamed with agony .  Elinor 's heart , which had undergone many changes in the course of this extraordinary conversation , was now softened again ; -- yet she felt it her duty to check such ideas in her companion as the last .  The two ladies continued to talk , to re-urge the same admitted truths , and enforce them with such examples of the ill effect of a contrary practice as had fallen within their observation , but Anne heard nothing distinctly ; it was only a buzz of words in her ear , her mind was in confusion .  `` I am afraid , ma'am , that it is not perfectly understood .  There was merit in every drawing -- in the least finished , perhaps the most ; her style was spirited ; but had there been much less , or had there been ten times more , the delight and admiration of her two companions would have been the same .  In a moment he went on --  CHAPTER XVIII  You may imagine how desirable !  said the grey man .  I can not imagine that she will not be continually insulting her visitor with praise , encouragement , and offers of service ; that she will not be continually detailing her magnificent intentions , from the procuring her a permanent situation to the including her in those delightful exploring parties which are to take place in the barouche-landau . ''  The little Gingerbread Boy ran on , and on , and on , till he came to a horse , in the pasture .  -- in the utmost amazement -- '' well , sir , -- be quick -- and if you can -- less violent . ''  Mrs. Palmer was so well at the end of a fortnight , that her mother felt it no longer necessary to give up the whole of her time to her ; and , contenting herself with visiting her once or twice a day , returned from that period to her own home , and her own habits , in which she found the Miss Dashwoods very ready to resume their former share .  Captain Benwick and Louisa Musgrove !  She read the concluding lines , and was all flutter and happiness .  She has plenty of money , and I intend she shall buy all the high-priced things I have in hand now . ''  Can it be a song of joy ?  `` She was certainly very civil to you . ''  But before he could wonder any more his breath was quite taken away by the shout those little white children gave .  I take the snow and the rain and the cold , and I am not sorry , but glad ; for in my roots I feel warmth and life , and I know that a store of greenness and beauty is shut up safe in my small brown buds .  The extent of your admiration may take you by surprize some day or other . ''  `` Me , my love , '' cried his wife , hearing and understanding only in part. -- `` Are you talking about me ? -- I am sure nobody ought to be , or can be , a greater advocate for matrimony than I am ; and if it had not been for the misery of her leaving Hartfield , I should never have thought of Miss Taylor but as the most fortunate woman in the world ; and as to slighting Mr. Weston , that excellent Mr. Weston , I think there is nothing he does not deserve .  They came from Birmingham , which is not a place to promise much , you know , Mr. Weston .  His name was good , his residence was in their favourite village , and she soon found out that of all manly dresses a shooting-jacket was the most becoming .  Her youth had passed without distinction , and her middle of life was devoted to the care of a failing mother , and the endeavour to make a small income go as far as possible .  A very few to-morrows stood between the young people of Highbury and happiness .  `` Imprudent , if you please -- but not mad .  Emma sat with her as long as she could , to attend her in Mrs. Goddard 's unavoidable absences , and raise her spirits by representing how much Mr. Elton 's would be depressed when he knew her state ; and left her at last tolerably comfortable , in the sweet dependence of his having a most comfortless visit , and of their all missing her very much .  THE END  `` Dearest Marianne , who but himself ?  A poet in love must be encouraged in both capacities , or neither .  Every year she grew more unselfish , and every year she worked harder .  He repeated the inquiry with yet greater eagerness .  `` Certainly , '' returned Mrs. John Dashwood .  `` Three o'clock yesterday !  You will not like the noise . ''  It might be worse . ''  `` And after all , five couple are not enough to make it worth while to stand up .  and very much to the purpose .  and I desire you will never insult me with my second W. again , meaning , for the rest of my life , to be only yours truly , -- Wm .  `` Nay , she has always been a first favourite with him , as you very well know . ''  That is usually the case with those who get into trouble .  You may do as you like , but I shall go to the play . ''  She thought well of Frank in almost every respect ; and , what was more , she loved him very much , and her defence was , therefore , earnest .  They were actually on the same sofa , for Mrs Musgrove had most readily made room for him ; they were divided only by Mrs Musgrove .  However , it was an exceeding good , pretty letter , and gave Mr. and Mrs. Weston a great deal of pleasure .  Tell me that it is all absolutely resolved on , that any attempt , that in short concealment , if concealment be possible , is all that remains . ''  The sympathy and good-will excited towards Captain Benwick was very great .  But I must object to your dooming Colonel Brandon and his wife to the constant confinement of a sick chamber , merely because he chanced to complain yesterday ( a very cold damp day ) of a slight rheumatic feel in one of his shoulders . ''  She had no difficulty in procuring Isabella 's invitation ; and she was fortunate in having a sufficient reason for asking it , without resorting to invention. -- There was a tooth amiss .  But she could not be long ungrateful ; he was sacrificing an engagement at a gunsmith 's , to be of use to her ; and she set off with him , with no feeling but gratitude apparent .  When he saw them coming he stood up , and roared in a terrible voice , -- `` You miserable little wretches , come here and be eaten , at once !  His horse was poor and old , many-coloured , and the ape rode with him .  Emma assisted with her invention , memory and taste ; and as Harriet wrote a very pretty hand , it was likely to be an arrangement of the first order , in form as well as quantity .  Your case is a very unfortunate one ; you seem to me to be surrounded with difficulties , and you will have need of all your mutual affection to support you under them .  After sitting with them a few minutes , the Miss Steeles returned to the Park , and Elinor was then at liberty to think and be wretched .  We are quite near relations , you know ; and Mr Elliot too , whom you ought so particularly to be acquainted with !  `` And do you see her , sir , tolerably often ? ''  Oh !  `` Aye , I wonder which she will .  `` I confess , '' replied Elinor , `` that while I am at Barton Park , I never think of tame and quiet children with any abhorrence . ''  It is a most uncommon complexion , with her dark eye-lashes and hair -- a most distinguishing complexion !  In a few moments Marianne did the same .  She looked down very decidedly upon the Hayters , and thought it would be quite a misfortune to have the existing connection between the families renewed -- very sad for herself and her children .  As for _his_ going , Emma did not wish him to think it possible , the hours would be too late , and the party too numerous .  `` Colonel and Mrs. Campbell are to be in town again by midsummer , '' said Jane .  Emma watched her through the fluctuations of this speech , and saw no alarming symptoms of love .  I long to make apologies , excuses , to urge something for myself .  The possibility of Colonel Brandon 's arriving and finding her there , came across her .  One likes to hear what is going on , to be au fait as to the newest modes of being trifling and silly .  in notes of woe !  Zelia was gone .  She had great satisfaction in replying that she was going into Devonshire. -- Edward turned hastily towards her , on hearing this , and , in a voice of surprise and concern , which required no explanation to her , repeated , `` Devonshire !  He was confused , seemed scarcely sensible of pleasure in seeing them , looked neither rapturous nor gay , said little but what was forced from him by questions , and distinguished Elinor by no mark of affection .  What strength , or what constancy of affection he might be subject to , was another point ; but at present she could not doubt his having a decidedly warm admiration , a conscious preference of herself ; and this persuasion , joined to all the rest , made her think that she _must_ be a little in love with him , in spite of every previous determination against it .  `` It was her very particular friend , you know . ''  Once a youthful pair , Filled with softest care , Met in garden bright Where the holy light Had just removed the curtains of the night .  At this the Tiger was going to eat the Brahmin at once .  Knightley ? -- Who was so useful to him , who so ready to write his letters , who so glad to assist him ? -- Who so cheerful , so attentive , so attached to him ? -- Would not he like to have him always on the spot ? -- Yes .  He was no dancer in general .  She has now been a longer time stationary there , than she ever was before , and she begins to want change .  I should be sorry to have YOU ill ; you , that have been the greatest comfort to me in the world ! -- Heaven knows what I should have done without your friendship . ''  Her carefulness in guarding her sister from ever hearing Willoughby 's name mentioned , was not thrown away .  And Emma had the advantage of hearing her own silly compliment repeated twice over before the good old lady could comprehend it .  `` Yes , you were very cross ; and I do not know what about , except that you were too late for the best strawberries .  and she had difficulty in behaving with temper .  Mrs. Dashwood , who did not chuse to dine with them oftener than they dined at the cottage , absolutely refused on her own account ; her daughters might do as they pleased .  But it would have broke MY heart , had I loved him , to hear him read with so little sensibility .  I dare say there was a difference when I was staying with them the other day .  `` No , upon no account in the world , Mr. Weston ; I am much obliged to you for reminding me .  Straight to the open doors of the big banquet hall he made his way , and into the midst of the grand feast there .  `` So scrupulous for others , '' he continued , `` and yet so careless for herself !  Very few of the little people of the Green Forest or the Green Meadows would willingly quarrel with him , for Little Joe is a great fighter when he has to fight .  Nothing , but to grow more worthy of him , whose intentions and judgment had been ever so superior to her own .  Mrs. Elton 's resources were inadequate to such an attack .  It will not do to _invite_ five couple .  `` Oh , Father Jackal , Father Jackal ! ''  Our coachman and horses are so extremely expeditious ! -- I believe we drive faster than any body. -- What a pleasure it is to send one 's carriage for a friend ! -- I understand you were so kind as to offer , but another time it will be quite unnecessary .  She calls you , Knightley -- what can she do for Mr. Cole ?  He was the intimate friend of my dear husband , who trusted and loved him , and thought him as good as himself .  Mr. Weston had walked in .  I long to inquire ; and how will MY interference be borne . ''  You will never go to Swisserland .  `` They mean , 'He hath put down the mighty from their seats , and hath exalted them of low degree , ' '' answered the clerk .  What shall I do ?  The charm of an object to occupy the many vacancies of Harriet 's mind was not to be talked away .  You may see her if you look this way . ''  Emma will be happy to entertain you .  But he was a boy !  This desponding turn of mind , though it could not be communicated to Mrs. Dashwood , gave additional pain to them all in the parting , which shortly took place , and left an uncomfortable impression on Elinor 's feelings especially , which required some trouble and time to subdue .  He wished her a good morning , and , attended by Sir John , left the room .  You must promise me not to sit up . ''  A young farmer , whether on horseback or on foot , is the very last sort of person to raise my curiosity .  `` Rather be grateful to your little son , and to the good Lord to whom he wrote for aid . ''  no doubt she had been suffering a great deal : more than any body had ever supposed -- and continual pain would try the temper .  She feared that under this persuasion she had been unjust , inattentive , nay , almost unkind , to her Elinor ; -- that Marianne 's affliction , because more acknowledged , more immediately before her , had too much engrossed her tenderness , and led her away to forget that in Elinor she might have a daughter suffering almost as much , certainly with less self-provocation , and greater fortitude .  When his mother first looked at him her heart was nearly broken , for he was even more beautiful than most babies are , -- so strong and fair and sweet .  After very little farther discourse , it was finally settled that the invitation should be fully accepted .  `` How I could so long a time be fancying myself !  `` I do not know what I could imagine , but I confess that I have seldom seen a face or figure more pleasing to me than hers .  What _could_ he do !  Chapter 7  An opportunity of coming hither , though with Mrs. Jennings , was a temptation we could not resist .  But the little Gingerbread Boy shouted across to him , `` You ca n't catch me ! ''  `` Oh !  I saw her there whenever I could , and after the death of my brother , ( which happened about five years ago , and which left to me the possession of the family property , ) she visited me at Delaford .  But neither geography nor tranquillity could come all at once , and Emma was now in a humour to resolve that they should both come in time .  Marianne was restored to her from a danger in which , as she now began to feel , her own mistaken judgment in encouraging the unfortunate attachment to Willoughby , had contributed to place her ; -- and in her recovery she had yet another source of joy unthought of by Elinor .  she exclaimed , `` he is there -- he is there -- Oh !  When had his influence , such influence begun ? -- When had he succeeded to that place in her affection , which Frank Churchill had once , for a short period , occupied ? -- She looked back ; she compared the two -- compared them , as they had always stood in her estimation , from the time of the latter 's becoming known to her -- and as they must at any time have been compared by her , had it -- oh !  there is not much difference .  The whole family perceived it , and Mrs. Dashwood , attributing it to some want of liberality in his mother , sat down to table indignant against all selfish parents .  He stood on the floor underneath the little Red Hen and twirled round in a circle after his own tail .  Oh !  Some of the people looked up , startled .  `` By many -- by some of whom you know nothing , by others with whom you are most intimate , Mrs. Jennings , Mrs. Palmer , and the Middletons .  `` Two or three months ! ''  I suppose you have not so many in this part of the world ; for my part , I think they are a vast addition always . ''  My father would be well pleased if the gentlemen were richer , but he has no other fault to find .  Perhaps he wanted to speak to her , of his attachment to Harriet ; he might be watching for encouragement to begin. -- She did not , could not , feel equal to lead the way to any such subject .  Elinor had not needed this to be assured of the injustice to which her sister was often led in her opinion of others , by the irritable refinement of her own mind , and the too great importance placed by her on the delicacies of a strong sensibility , and the graces of a polished manner .  `` No bad news , Colonel , I hope ; '' said Mrs. Jennings , as soon as he entered the room .  In went the stone and out came the boiling water , all over the old Fox and the old Fox 's mother !  This was a cruel aggravation of actually straitened means .  Charles , Anne , must not it ?  This little circumstance seemed the completion of all that had gone before .  Then , by and by , one day , Margaret died .  Marianne sighed , and repeated , `` I wish for no change . ''  She resolved to prevail on her to spend a day at Hartfield .  Even Lady Middleton took the trouble of being delighted , which was putting herself rather out of her way ; and as for the Miss Steeles , especially Lucy , they had never been so happy in their lives as this intelligence made them .  She therefore satisfied herself with common-place remarks or quiet attention , and the Admiral had it all his own way .  -- He thought of it all day long , and for many days successively , and he did not repent .  Nay , he appeared so much otherwise , that his daughter 's courage failed .  `` I mentioned no _names_ , you will observe. -- Oh !  `` I 'm glad I 'm safely in , '' she said .  So Reddy pretended not to believe a word of what Little Joe Otter had said , and he agreed with Blacky that only by seeing Farmer Brown 's boy afraid could he ever be made to believe it .  `` Yes ; I did not see them myself , but I heard Mr Elliot say they were in the room . ''  `` I command that the Nightingale be brought here to sing for me this evening . ''  `` Well , then , LET something be done for them ; but THAT something need not be three thousand pounds .  So passed the first three weeks .  Emma had no longer an alarm for Henry ; his interest was yet safe ; and she led off the dance with genuine spirit and enjoyment .  The old Fox went on carrying the stone and never knew the difference .  Mr. Cole said how much taste you had ; and Mr. Frank Churchill talked a great deal about your taste , and that he valued taste much more than execution . ''  poor fellow ! -- sad business for him. -- She was extremely concerned ; for , though very eccentric , he had a thousand good qualities. -- How could he be so taken in ? -- Did not think him at all in love -- not in the least. -- Poor Knightley ! -- There would be an end of all pleasant intercourse with him. -- How happy he had been to come and dine with them whenever they asked him !  so far off ! -- and the air so bad ! ''  The compliment was just returned , coldly and proudly ; and , under indescribable irritation of spirits , she was then conveyed to Hartfield .  He had imagined himself indifferent , when he had only been angry ; and he had been unjust to her merits , because he had been a sufferer from them .  not handsome -- not at all handsome .  Anne found an unexpected interest here .  `` Upon my word , '' said Emma , `` I begin to doubt my having any such talent .  He heard Blacky the Crow cawing at the top of his lungs , and he knew by the sound that Blacky was getting into mischief of some kind .  Only think , Miss Elliot , to my great surprise I met with Mr Elliot in Bath Street .  `` I hope he will be here to-morrow , for I have a question or two to ask him about myself of some consequence .  When this was over , Mr. Woodhouse gratefully observed , `` It is very kind of you , Mr. Knightley , to come out at this late hour to call upon us .  It has given me such an abhorrence of annuities , that I am sure I would not pin myself down to the payment of one for all the world . ''  I say , sir , '' turning to Mr. Woodhouse , `` I think there are few places with such society as Highbury .  He was in orders ; and having a curacy in the neighbourhood , where residence was not required , lived at his father 's house , only two miles from Uppercross .  When he was in his own house he set the shiny acorn on the table .  But as to the rest , as to the others , if one stays to assist Mrs Harville , I think it need be only one .  We shall never forget what you did . ''  Well , that is so very ! -- I am sure if Jane is tired , you will be so kind as to give her your arm. -- Mr .  for famous you must be to satisfy all your family ; and with no inclination for expense , no affection for strangers , no profession , and no assurance , you may find it a difficult matter . ''  Their first pause was at the Crown Inn , an inconsiderable house , though the principal one of the sort , where a couple of pair of post-horses were kept , more for the convenience of the neighbourhood than from any run on the road ; and his companions had not expected to be detained by any interest excited there ; but in passing it they gave the history of the large room visibly added ; it had been built many years ago for a ball-room , and while the neighbourhood had been in a particularly populous , dancing state , had been occasionally used as such ; -- but such brilliant days had long passed away , and now the highest purpose for which it was ever wanted was to accommodate a whist club established among the gentlemen and half-gentlemen of the place .  She got her to Hartfield , and shewed her the most unvarying kindness , striving to occupy and amuse her , and by books and conversation , to drive Mr. Elton from her thoughts .  After a while the little Jackal came dancing into the garden , very happy and free from care , -- _but_ looking all around .  You mentioned it as what was certainly to be very soon .  I will not open the window here ; it would give you all cold ; but I can go into my mother 's room you know .  Churchill ? ''  Sir John wanted the whole family to walk to the Park directly and look at his guests .  Miss Fairfax must already have given her account. -- I shall not commit myself by claiming more than she may chuse to allow . ''  [ Illustration : `` You take my advice , Little Joe Otter , '' continued Grandfather Frog .  But I have no right , and I could have no chance of succeeding .  She rather suspected it to be so , on the very first evening of their being together , from his listening so attentively while she sang to them ; and when the visit was returned by the Middletons ' dining at the cottage , the fact was ascertained by his listening to her again .  Did he see you last summer or autumn , `somewhere down in the west , ' to use her own words , without knowing it to be you ? ''  It made him so very unhappy , indeed , that it could not be persevered in .  Proportions , fore-shortening. -- Oh no !  I thought we HAD been safe . ''  His lady greeted him with some of her sparkling vivacity .  `` My love , have you been asleep ? ''  The three sons were bitterly disappointed to have all their work for nothing .  As to the management of their children , his theory was much better than his wife 's , and his practice not so bad .  He came to them every day .  Colonel Brandon 's delicate , unobtrusive enquiries were never unwelcome to Miss Dashwood .  `` To think of your sending us all your store apples .  repeated he ; `` would they have me beg my mother 's pardon for Robert 's ingratitude to HER , and breach of honour to ME ? -- I can make no submission -- I am grown neither humble nor penitent by what has passed. -- I am grown very happy ; but that would not interest. -- I know of no submission that IS proper for me to make . ''  Men and women servants tried to stop the ragged man , who had somehow got into the palace , but Robert did not even see them as he fled along .  But the resolution was made only to be broken .  He bumped the little Stars right and left , all over the sky , until every one of them put his little lamp out and left it dark .  The black mare was blameless ; _they_ were right who had named Mrs. Churchill as the cause .  In what distant deeps or skies Burnt the fire of thine eyes ?  But now , she would rather it had not happened .  Nearer and nearer came Buster Bear , and deeper and angrier sounded his voice .  The weather does not look well , and grandmama will be uneasy .  Not more than five couple could be mustered ; but the rarity and the suddenness of it made it very delightful , and she found herself well matched in a partner .  Colonel Wallis said it , and Lady Russell saw it ; but it had been no unhappiness to sour his mind , nor ( she began pretty soon to suspect ) to prevent his thinking of a second choice .  cried Little Jack Rollaround ; and the little boat sailed faster up the wall , across the ceiling , down the wall , and over the floor .  At her age she can have no experience , and with her little wit , is not very likely ever to have any that can avail her .  `` Indeed , I am very sorry to be right in this instance .  `` I am not one of those who neglect the reigning power to bow to the rising sun .  And so I am not to be surprized that Jane Fairfax accepts her civilities and consents to be with her .  I was angry with my foe : I told it not , my wrath did grow .  She will hardly be less hurt , I suppose , by Robert 's marrying Lucy , than she would have been by your marrying her . ''  Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun had climbed a little way up in the sky by the time Farmer Brown 's boy reached the Old Pasture , and was smiling down on all the Great World , and all the Great World seemed to be smiling back .  The industrious man only nodded , and kept on with his steady stride , eyes straight ahead .  Up the airy mountain , Down the rushy glen , We dare n't go a-hunting For fear of little men .  She was out ; and I felt it impossible not to wait till she came in .  It must be a work of time to ascertain that no injury had been done to the spine ; but Mr Robinson found nothing to increase alarm , and Charles Musgrove began , consequently , to feel no necessity for longer confinement .  They ought to have balls there at least every fortnight through the winter .  It tickled him so that he had hard work to keep a straight face .  Then come home , my children , the sun is gone down , And the dews of night arise ; Your spring and your day are wasted in play , And your winter and night in disguise .  such delightful proofs of Hartfield 's attraction , as those sort of visits conveyed , might shortly be over .  As the Beetle raised his head from his profound bow , his gaze happened to alight upon the Dewdrop .  I will not promise even to equal the elegant terseness of Mrs. Elton , by calling you Mr. K. -- But I will promise , '' she added presently , laughing and blushing -- '' I will promise to call you once by your Christian name .  She did not mean to have her own affections entangled again , and it would be incumbent on her to avoid any encouragement of his .  There was no wound , no blood , no visible bruise ; but her eyes were closed , she breathed not , her face was like death .  So he put on a very cheerful voice , as if nothing at all were the matter , and he said , -- `` Ho !  `` It was what she had been thinking of , and wishing to be allowed to do .  By this time the report of the accident had spread among the workmen and boatmen about the Cobb , and many were collected near them , to be useful if wanted , at any rate , to enjoy the sight of a dead young lady , nay , two dead young ladies , for it proved twice as fine as the first report .  -- But , in spite of these deficiencies , the wishes , the hopes , the confidence , the predictions of the small band of true friends who witnessed the ceremony , were fully answered in the perfect happiness of the union .  Knightley. -- Neither would she regret that he should be going to Brunswick Square , for she knew how much his visit would be enjoyed -- but it might have happened at a better time -- and to have had longer notice of it , would have been pleasanter. -- They parted thorough friends , however ; she could not be deceived as to the meaning of his countenance , and his unfinished gallantry ; -- it was all done to assure her that she had fully recovered his good opinion. -- He had been sitting with them half an hour , she found .  Emma was ready for her visitor some time before he appeared ; but if this reflected at all upon his impatience , his sorrowful look and total want of spirits when he did come might redeem him .  Anne , really tired herself , was glad to sit down ; and she very soon heard Captain Wentworth and Louisa in the hedge-row , behind her , as if making their way back along the rough , wild sort of channel , down the centre .  I was the most miserable wretch ! ''  From this moment her mind was never quiet ; the expectation of seeing him every hour of the day , made her unfit for any thing .  Alarming sounds were heard ; other visitors approached , and the door was thrown open for Sir Walter and Miss Elliot , whose entrance seemed to give a general chill .  Good morning to you , my dear sir .  Instead of forgetting him , his behaviour was such that she could not avoid the internal suggestion of `` Can it really be as my brother imagined ?  It crossed my mind immediately that you would not regret your friend 's leaving Highbury , for the sake of her being settled so well .  She was perfectly disposed to make every allowance for the colonel 's advanced state of life which humanity required .  With almost every other man in the world , it would be an alarming prospect ; but Edward 's affection and constancy nothing can deprive me of I know . ''  It was a little sheepish grin at first , but at last it grew into a laugh .  You saw how hysterical I was yesterday . ''  You really are a very sad girl , and do not know how to take care of yourself. -- To the post-office indeed !  She cast her eye over it , pondered , caught the meaning , read it through again to be quite certain , and quite mistress of the lines , and then passing it to Harriet , sat happily smiling , and saying to herself , while Harriet was puzzling over the paper in all the confusion of hope and dulness , `` Very well , Mr. Elton , very well indeed .  He had to guard them from wild animals , and lead them to the right pastures , and care for them .  She was sitting near the window , and as soon as Sir John perceived her , he left the rest of the party to the ceremony of knocking at the door , and stepping across the turf , obliged her to open the casement to speak to him , though the space was so short between the door and the window , as to make it hardly possible to speak at one without being heard at the other .  Every additional day of unhappy confidence , on your side , would have made the blow more dreadful . ''  `` And now we shall just miss them ; too provoking ! -- I do not know when I have been so disappointed . ''  `` He has been used to her in these complaints , and I hope to-morrow morning will bring us both a more comfortable report .  William did not seem to mind it himself , he was so pleased to think his master had sold so many ; for William , you know , thinks more of his master 's profit than any thing ; but Mrs. Hodges , he said , was quite displeased at their being all sent away .  I should have thought your last impressions of Lyme must have been strong disgust . ''  The night was dark , no father was there , The child was wet with dew ; The mire was deep , and the child did weep , And away the vapour flew .  `` That he is patronised by YOU , '' replied Willoughby , `` is certainly in his favour ; but as for the esteem of the others , it is a reproach in itself .  I wish you could have heard her honouring your forbearance , in being able to pay her such attentions , as she was for ever receiving from yourself and your father , when her society must be so irksome . ''  And outside I peep over the snow and see a stream of ruddy light from a crack in the window-shutter , and I nod out here alone in the dark , thinking how beautiful it is .  I , you may well believe , could talk of nothing but my child ; -- he could not conceal his distress ; I saw that it equalled my own , and he perhaps , thinking that mere friendship , as the world now goes , would not justify so warm a sympathy -- or rather , not thinking at all , I suppose -- giving way to irresistible feelings , made me acquainted with his earnest , tender , constant , affection for Marianne .  The regular and best families Emma could hardly suppose they would presume to invite -- neither Donwell , nor Hartfield , nor Randalls .  And when he found that he was ahead of the threshers , he turned and shouted back to them , -- `` Run !  `` And now , '' silently conjectured Elinor , `` she will write to Combe by this day 's post . ''  It was a valued , a precious trust to me ; and gladly would I have discharged it in the strictest sense , by watching over her education myself , had the nature of our situations allowed it ; but I had no family , no home ; and my little Eliza was therefore placed at school .  But then , is not it the same with many other professions , perhaps most other ?  But , upon my word , Mr. Elton , in your case , I should certainly excuse myself .  Indeed , I must do ourselves the justice to say , that the few alterations we have made have been all very much for the better .  Harriet listened , and Emma drew in peace .  What a horrible idea !  But each time Robert threw back his head and answered , proudly , `` I am the king ! ''  `` It shuts like this , '' said the Brahmin , pushing it to .  Not that I had any doubt before -- I have so often heard Mr. Woodhouse recommend a baked apple .  Just the kind of girl I should suppose likely to captivate poor Edward .  She was pleased with the eagerness to arrive which had made him alter his plan , and travel earlier , later , and quicker , that he might gain half a day .  Ay , it is a fine thing to be young and handsome .  `` I have never been able , '' continued Lucy , `` to give him my picture in return , which I am very much vexed at , for he has been always so anxious to get it !  -- she cried , with great agitation .  'T is seldom Fortune such favour grants As fell to this little maid of France .  Elinor and her mother rose up in amazement at their entrance , and while the eyes of both were fixed on him with an evident wonder and a secret admiration which equally sprung from his appearance , he apologized for his intrusion by relating its cause , in a manner so frank and so graceful that his person , which was uncommonly handsome , received additional charms from his voice and expression .  Had she not imagined herself consulting his good , even more than her own , she could hardly have given him up .  She and Mr. Frank Churchill had been at Weymouth at the same time .  Look ! ''  How very comfortable they make it ; -- impossible to feel cold with such precautions .  But he didn't take so much as one bite .  Buster Bear sprang forward and with one of his big paws caught the fat trout just as it was slipping back into the water .  I 'll teach you to treat your betters with respect !  She had scarcely a stronger regret than for her past coldness ; and the person , whom she had been so many months neglecting , was now the very one on whom she would have lavished every distinction of regard or sympathy .  taking a last look at the picture , as they began to be in motion .  It would have been strange if I had not gone . ''  Every body is so surprized ; and every body says the same obliging things .  `` Thank you , thank you. -- This is just what I wanted to be assured of. -- Oh !  One meeting was unavoidable . ''  What were nine miles to a young man ? -- An hour 's ride .  But , as it is , the disappointment is single , and , I trust , will not be lasting .  Do not defer it .  But what I mean is , that I hope there is nothing in Captain Wentworth 's manner of writing to make you suppose he thinks himself ill-used by his friend , which might appear , you know , without its being absolutely said .  Now , however , it was absolutely to be ; every preparation was resumed , and very soon after the Churchills had removed to Richmond , a few lines from Frank , to say that his aunt felt already much better for the change , and that he had no doubt of being able to join them for twenty-four hours at any given time , induced them to name as early a day as possible .  `` So obliged to you ! -- so very much obliged to you for the carriage , '' resumed Miss Bates .  `` You , sir , may say any thing , '' cried Mr. Elton , `` but I must confess that I regard it as a most happy thought , the placing of Miss Smith out of doors ; and the tree is touched with such inimitable spirit !  On the contrary , when he saw more of Captain Wentworth , saw him repeatedly by daylight , and eyed him well , he was very much struck by his personal claims , and felt that his superiority of appearance might be not unfairly balanced against her superiority of rank ; and all this , assisted by his well-sounding name , enabled Sir Walter at last to prepare his pen , with a very good grace , for the insertion of the marriage in the volume of honour .  So nobody could get the court built .  I have always understood they were not a happy couple .  What are they saying about Mr .  It was called a harrow , and it looked like the diagram on the next page .  `` You will not , '' said the giant .  But there are other points to be considered besides his inclination .  This argument was irresistible .  Let me hear any thing rather than what you are all thinking of .  `` Handsome !  _We_ must begin ; we must go and pay wedding visit very soon . ''  Perry says that colds have been very general , but not so heavy as he has very often known them in November .  is Fanny ill ? ''  But there was one method so direct , so simple , and in her opinion so eligible of knowing the real state of the affair , and of instantly removing all mystery , that she could not help suggesting it to her mother .  But the strangest part of the whole story is , that when Moses grew to be a man he became so strong and wise that it was he who at last saved his people from the king and rescued them from the Egyptians .  `` I do n't care whether you believe it or not ; it 's true , '' he retorted .  Will you not shake hands with me ? ''  For a minute no one said a word .  What a happy day for booksellers , music-sellers , and print-shops !  They were both silent : Mrs Smith very thoughtful .  said I , `I shall not forestall Jane ; I left her dancing with Mr. George Otway ; she will love to tell you all about it herself to-morrow : her first partner was Mr. Elton , I do not know who will ask her next , perhaps Mr. William Cox . '  His sister married my tenant in Somersetshire , the Croft , who rents Kellynch . ''  `` Well , I am very glad indeed : but I always thought you would have it ; I always thought you sure .  But with a beautiful smile she bade them come to their kingdom .  said she , `` Elinor will , in all probability be settled for life .  said the fox , `` but that 's the way he was when he was making the thing for me , and I 'll go no nearer to him . ''  Elinor , persuaded that he had some communication to make in which her sister was concerned , impatiently expected its opening .  `` I do not know . ''  I certainly should have represented it to Edward in a very strong light .  `` No , nothing . ''  But ( with a reproachful smile at Emma ) she receives attentions from Mrs. Elton , which nobody else pays her . ''  A thousand vexatious thoughts would recur .  Lady Middleton seemed to be roused to enjoyment only by the entrance of her four noisy children after dinner , who pulled her about , tore her clothes , and put an end to every kind of discourse except what related to themselves .  He was brought , not from doubt or suspense , but from misery to happiness ; -- and the change was openly spoken in such a genuine , flowing , grateful cheerfulness , as his friends had never witnessed in him before .  `` No , not now , I thank you .  `` Oh !  `` Do you suppose , '' Margery said to herself , `` that lettuce and radish look alike while they are growing ?  very delightful indeed ; I can say nothing less , for I suppose Miss Woodhouse and Mr. Frank Churchill are hearing every thing that passes .  Under a bright mid-day sun , at almost Midsummer , Mr. Woodhouse was safely conveyed in his carriage , with one window down , to partake of this al-fresco party ; and in one of the most comfortable rooms in the Abbey , especially prepared for him by a fire all the morning , he was happily placed , quite at his ease , ready to talk with pleasure of what had been achieved , and advise every body to come and sit down , and not to heat themselves. -- Mrs. Weston , who seemed to have walked there on purpose to be tired , and sit all the time with him , remained , when all the others were invited or persuaded out , his patient listener and sympathiser .  `` Our amiable young man is a very weak young man , if this be the first occasion of his carrying through a resolution to do right against the will of others .  `` You ought to know by this time that no good comes of stealing . ''  As they were turning into the grounds , Mr. Perry passed by on horseback .  1780  and this was the end of it ! ''  She wished with all her heart Combe Magna was not so near Cleveland ; but it did not signify , for it was a great deal too far off to visit ; she hated him so much that she was resolved never to mention his name again , and she should tell everybody she saw , how good-for-nothing he was . ''  The lazy man lay down in the soft grass , and looked rather wistfully at the far-away towers .  The charm of Kellynch and of `` Lady Elliot '' all faded away .  At last , it became necessary to speak of her .  `` Undoubtedly .  I found he had been used to hear of me .  Do you think this is a good plan ? ''  they will strip root and branch ! ''  `` She could not compose herself -- Mr. Woodhouse would be alarmed -- she had better go ; '' -- with most ready encouragement from her friend , therefore , she passed off through another door -- and the moment she was gone , this was the spontaneous burst of Emma 's feelings : `` Oh God !  `` Do you call ME happy , Marianne ?  said Lady Dalrymple .  `` Poor young man ! ''  Mrs. Goddard was the mistress of a School -- not of a seminary , or an establishment , or any thing which professed , in long sentences of refined nonsense , to combine liberal acquirements with elegant morality , upon new principles and new systems -- and where young ladies for enormous pay might be screwed out of health and into vanity -- but a real , honest , old-fashioned Boarding-school , where a reasonable quantity of accomplishments were sold at a reasonable price , and where girls might be sent to be out of the way , and scramble themselves into a little education , without any danger of coming back prodigies .  `` To fall in with each other on such an errand as this , '' thought Emma ; `` to meet in a charitable scheme ; this will bring a great increase of love on each side .  So the Giant-Maidens waxed very wroth with King Frode , and as they resumed their labours they sang a song of the hardness of their lot in the household of this pitiless King .  yes , very .  `` Ah !  `` I am very sure that I never said any thing of either to the other , which both might not have heard . ''  The undesirableness of any other house in the same neighbourhood for Sir Walter was certainly much strengthened by one part , and a very material part of the scheme , which had been happily engrafted on the beginning .  How does Mrs. Dashwood do ?  To his great astonishment , she refused .  `` Yes , very soon .  But all this may be explained by such a situation of his affairs as you have supposed .  Mr. and Mrs. John Knightley were not detained long at Hartfield .  No husbands and wives , '' with so interesting a consciousness , that Emma began to consider whether she had not better leave them together at once .  Whirling through the hall , sweeping aside and killing the men who got in its way , it sprang to its master 's hand .  `` Almost every moment .  He took the opposite chair , and for half a minute not a word was said by either .  So the Brahmin unlocked the door and let the Tiger out .  For a moment or two nothing was said , and she was unsuspicious of having excited any particular interest , till she found her arm drawn within his , and pressed against his heart , and heard him thus saying , in a tone of great sensibility , speaking low ,  And she sat still again .  He was not in his best spirits , but seemed trying to improve them ; and , at last , made himself talk nonsense very agreeably .  But while so many were devoting him to Emma , and Emma herself making him over to Harriet , Mr. Knightley began to suspect him of some inclination to trifle with Jane Fairfax .  `` Does it , _indeed_ !  Her friends evidently thought this good enough for her ; and it _was_ good enough .  It was the first of the long , slow strokes that mark midnight !  Mr Shepherd had once mentioned the word `` advertise , '' but never dared approach it again .  The dinner , already ordered at the inn , was at last , though unwillingly , accepted as a excuse ; but they seemed almost hurt that Captain Wentworth should have brought any such party to Lyme , without considering it as a thing of course that they should dine with them .  She almost ran out of the room , and as soon as the door was closed , burst into tears of joy , which at first she thought would never cease .  `` She should always send for Perry , if the child appeared in the slightest degree disordered , were it only for a moment .  From that evening , or at least from the time of Miss Woodhouse 's encouraging her to think of him , Harriet had begun to be sensible of his talking to her much more than he had been used to do , and of his having indeed quite a different manner towards her ; a manner of kindness and sweetness ! -- Latterly she had been more and more aware of it .  At last there came a day when he had nothing left but one piece of leather , big enough to make one pair of shoes .  By and by she heard another little _tap , tap , tap_ on the window-pane .  But did you never see him ?  He had , in fact , though his sisters were now doing all they could for him , by calling him `` poor Richard , '' been nothing better than a thick-headed , unfeeling , unprofitable Dick Musgrove , who had never done anything to entitle himself to more than the abbreviation of his name , living or dead .  Captain Benwick was most considerately attentive to her ; and , united as they all seemed by the distress of the day , she felt an increasing degree of good-will towards him , and a pleasure even in thinking that it might , perhaps , be the occasion of continuing their acquaintance .  Oh , barbarously insolent ! -- Elinor , can he be justified ? ''  `` Perhaps , '' said Willoughby , `` his observations may have extended to the existence of nabobs , gold mohrs , and palanquins . ''  Mr. John Knightley here asked Emma quietly whether there were any doubts of the air of Randalls .  here it is .  `` Poor Miss Taylor ! -- I wish she were here again .  She was persuaded that under every disadvantage of disapprobation at home , and every anxiety attending his profession , all their probable fears , delays , and disappointments , she should yet have been a happier woman in maintaining the engagement , than she had been in the sacrifice of it ; and this , she fully believed , had the usual share , had even more than the usual share of all such solicitudes and suspense been theirs , without reference to the actual results of their case , which , as it happened , would have bestowed earlier prosperity than could be reasonably calculated on .  `` A bad thing !  I shall then go post . ''  `` Can you , indeed ! ''  I have heard him express himself so warmly on those points ! -- Such an admirer of her performance on the pianoforte , and of her voice !  Give me the paper and listen .  We explored to King's-Weston twice last summer , in that way , most delightfully , just after their first having the barouche-landau .  Then , of course , the Lion could see where they were .  Henrietta asked him what he thought of you , when they went away , and he said , `You were so altered he should not have known you again . ' ''  The treachery , or the folly , of my cousin 's maid betrayed us .  I hope his letter does not breathe the spirit of an ill-used man . ''  `` You are silent , Miss Fairfax -- but I hope you mean to take an interest in this news .  I am serious , Miss Woodhouse , whatever your penetrating eyes may fancy -- I am sick of England -- and would leave it to-morrow , if I could . ''  'My dear Courtland , ' said I , immediately throwing them all into the fire , 'do not adopt either of them , but by all means build a cottage . '  `` No sister , '' cried Lucy , `` you are mistaken there , our favourite beaux are NOT great coxcombs . ''  And dear Emma , too ! -- What a dreadful loss to you both ! -- I have been so grieved for you. -- I could not imagine how you could possibly do without her. -- It is a sad change indeed. -- But I hope she is pretty well , sir . ''  She read nothing but what they had been used to read together .  This may be bad morality to conclude with , but I believe it to be truth ; and if such parties succeed , how should a Captain Wentworth and an Anne Elliot , with the advantage of maturity of mind , consciousness of right , and one independent fortune between them , fail of bearing down every opposition ?  How could she have been so brutal , so cruel to Miss Bates !  These points formed her chief solicitude in anticipating her removal from Uppercross , where she felt she had been stationed quite long enough .  I have more pleasure in a snug farm-house than a watch-tower -- and a troop of tidy , happy villages please me better than the finest banditti in the world . ''  So did Jerry Muskrat , who had been listening .  Mr. Elton then turned back to accompany them .  `` As soon as I am cooler I shall go back again .  It was creditable to have a sister married , and she might flatter herself with having been greatly instrumental to the connexion , by keeping Anne with her in the autumn ; and as her own sister must be better than her husband 's sisters , it was very agreeable that Captain Wentworth should be a richer man than either Captain Benwick or Charles Hayter .  Miss Bates should never again -- no , never !  he exclaimed loftily .  said King Solomon .  `` Lord !  `` I was only going to observe , that though such unfortunate circumstances do sometimes occur both to men and women , I can not imagine them to be very frequent .  `` It is one that I shall never change , however . ''  `` My father would say `yes , ' Mr. Knightley `no ; ' and Miss Bates and I that he is just the happy medium .  And that yell was a yell of fright .  Each believed himself to be the more powerful .  Pass Mr. E. , Knightley , Jane , and myself .  And Lady Middleton , is SHE angry ? ''  And upon looking over his letters and things , she found it was so , and is perfectly sure that this must be the very man , and her head is quite full of it , and of poor Richard !  `` Ah ! -- Indeed I am very sorry. -- Come , shake hands with me . ''  Those who can barely live , and who live perforce in a very small , and generally very inferior , society , may well be illiberal and cross .  When Death was gone , the Emperor said to the little Nightingale , `` Oh , dear little Nightingale , you have saved me from Death !  He had never indulged much hope , he had now none , of ever reading her name in any other page of his favourite work .  Then he saved a nice fat trout and waited .  `` Well then ; I guess that Mr. Willoughby hunts . ''  The refreshment of Randalls was absolutely necessary .  Chapter 24  The waiter came into the room soon afterwards .  `` It is my acorn , '' said the Field Mouse ; `` I found it . ''  Well , I am glad she is gone to settle in Ireland . ''  So the maiden went , and brought her mother !  `` I hope you 'll always remember it . ''  Her own spirits improved by change of place and subject , by being removed three miles from Kellynch ; Mary 's ailments lessened by having a constant companion , and their daily intercourse with the other family , since there was neither superior affection , confidence , nor employment in the cottage , to be interrupted by it , was rather an advantage .  You would not wish to disappoint and mortify the Coles , I am sure , sir ; friendly , good sort of people as ever lived , and who have been your neighbours these _ten_ years . ''  `` I wonder he did not remember the book '' -- was all Harriet 's answer , and spoken with a degree of grave displeasure which Emma thought might be safely left to itself .  He looked rather distressed as he added , that he had been staying with some friends near Plymouth .  `` This would soon have led to something better , of course , '' was her consoling reflection ; `` any thing interests between those who love ; and any thing will serve as introduction to what is near the heart .  But ( with a smile ) you would be materially benefited in one particular at least -- you would know where to go when you left them . ''  At last , it was time to make the place for the seeds .  `` I am afraid it is but too true , '' said Marianne ; `` but why should you boast of it ? ''  Decidedly , I think , a very gentleman-like man . ''  `` That may be , and I may have seen him fifty times , but without having any idea of his name .  In this manner they had continued about a quarter of an hour , when Marianne , whose nerves could not then bear any sudden noise , was startled by a rap at the door .  CHAPTER XVI  CHAPTER II  I told you that your suspicions would guide mine . ''  Lady Middleton proposed a rubber of Casino to the others .  Seven miles were travelled in expectation of enjoyment , and every body had a burst of admiration on first arriving ; but in the general amount of the day there was deficiency .  `` I know what I'll do !  Emma was almost ready to sink under the agitation of this moment .  His father very much wished him to meet Captain Wentworth , and there being no sufficient reason against it , he ought to go ; and it ended in his making a bold , public declaration , when he came in from shooting , of his meaning to dress directly , and dine at the other house .  She was just in time to see him turn into the Concert Room .  Margery and her mother helped .  Elinor , unable herself to determine whether it were better for Marianne to be in London or at Barton , offered no counsel of her own except of patience till their mother 's wishes could be known ; and at length she obtained her sister 's consent to wait for that knowledge .  Mrs. Dashwood , however , conforming , as she trusted , to the wishes of that daughter , by whom she then meant in the warmth of her heart to be guided in every thing , met with a look of forced complacency , gave him her hand , and wished him joy .  She could only compare Mr Elliot to Lady Russell , in the wish of really comprehending what had passed , and in the degree of concern for what she must have suffered in witnessing it .  Then to have the handle of the pail slip down around his neck so that he could n't get rid of the pail but had to take it with him as he ran , was making a bad matter worse .  said Miss Steele , as soon as they were gone .  Presently he asked them about their lives .  During his present short stay , Emma had barely seen him ; but just enough to feel that the first meeting was over , and to give her the impression of his not being improved by the mixture of pique and pretension , now spread over his air .  What say you , Marianne ? ''  The villagers heard him , but they thought it was another mean trick ; no one paid the least attention , or went near him .  Yes , Friday or Saturday ; she can not say which , because Colonel Campbell will be wanting the carriage himself one of those days .  I thought you had lost half your property , at least .  And it always ended in `` Kitty , a fair but frozen maid . ''  What has he been judging by ? -- I am not conscious of any difference in my spirits or conversation that could prepare him at this time for my marrying any more than at another. -- But it was so , I suppose .  I really must talk to him about purchasing a donkey .  There does seem to be a something in the air of Hartfield which gives love exactly the right direction , and sends it into the very channel where it ought to flow .  The clouds seem parting too , the sun will be out in a moment , and we shall have a clear afternoon . ''  His daughter and Mrs Clay united in hinting that Colonel Wallis 's companion might have as good a figure as Colonel Wallis , and certainly was not sandy-haired .  Such were Elizabeth Elliot 's sentiments and sensations ; such the cares to alloy , the agitations to vary , the sameness and the elegance , the prosperity and the nothingness of her scene of life ; such the feelings to give interest to a long , uneventful residence in one country circle , to fill the vacancies which there were no habits of utility abroad , no talents or accomplishments for home , to occupy .  `` Elinor , '' cried Marianne , `` is this fair ?  `` Other great and inevitable expenses too we have had on first coming to Norland .  But the feelings of the past could not be recalled. -- Nothing could restore him with a faith unbroken -- a character unblemished , to Marianne .  Once there was a Little Fir Tree , slim and pointed , and shiny , which stood in the great forest in the midst of some big fir trees , broad , and tall , and shadowy green .  CHAPTER IX  for of course you must know , as you have been in Devonshire so lately . ' ''  Can I go anywhere for you , or with you ?  That will be very bad . ''  He had a great regard for Mrs. Goddard ; and Emma should write a line , and invite her .  And you may say , that I mean to call upon her soon .  Look at her .  I could never hope to equal my own doings at Randalls .  `` And mine , '' added Sir Walter .  `` I do believe that scamp Joe Otter is trying to get even with me for eating that fat trout ! ''  The little boy had grown quick to read these signs of distress , and he thought , `` Christmas will be here soon , and dear mother is thinking of what a sad time it will be . ''  Do you know how Miss Bates and her niece came here ? ''  The father and mother were in the old English style , and the young people in the new .  He seemed really anxious to accommodate them and the whole of his letter was written in so friendly a style as could not fail of giving pleasure to his cousin ; more especially at a moment when she was suffering under the cold and unfeeling behaviour of her nearer connections .  Happily for her , they were not many .  `` But you are always kind . ''  `` Well , if you give me such kind encouragement , Mr. Elton , I believe I shall try what I can do .  then , said I , I must run across , I am sure Miss Woodhouse will allow me just to run across and entreat her to come in ; my mother will be so very happy to see her -- and now we are such a nice party , she can not refuse. -- `Aye , pray do , ' said Mr. Frank Churchill , `Miss Woodhouse 's opinion of the instrument will be worth having . '  `` I am ready , if the others are . ''  He turned round , and there stood a little horse !  When you leave Barton to form your own establishment in a more lasting home , Queen Mab shall receive you . ''  with a deep sigh , that he wished I might find as much happiness in the marriage state as he had done. -- I felt that it would be of a different sort. -- Are you disposed to pity me for what I must have suffered in opening the cause to him , for my suspense while all was at stake ? -- No ; do not pity me till I reached Highbury , and saw how ill I had made her .  A few months hence , and the room now so deserted , occupied but by her silent , pensive self , might be filled again with all that was happy and gay , all that was glowing and bright in prosperous love , all that was most unlike Anne Elliot !  exclaimed Billy Mink .  The circumstances of his marriage , too , were found to admit of much extenuation .  He got up and moved away .  By doing it , I shall feel that I am near you .  It must be Willoughby therefore whom you suspect .  There must be the same immediate association of thought , though she was very far from conceiving it to be of equal pain .  He soon joined them again , successful , of course ; Lady Dalrymple would be most happy to take them home , and would call for them in a few minutes .  I know Mr. John Knightley too well -- I am very sure he understands the value of friendship as well as any body .  I assure you I heard of it in my way through town . ''  But as I have always had a thoroughly good opinion of Miss Fairfax , I never could , under any blunder , have spoken ill of her ; and as to speaking ill of him , there I must have been safe . ''  Surely if anyone killeth him that man will the king make rich ; perhaps he will give him his daughter in marriage , and make his family free in Israel ! ''  Heavens !  But it is even so .  It was so big and fat that it made Little Joe's mouth water , for you know fat trout are his favorite food .  `` I like your plan , '' cried Mr. Weston .  Away , sir , pass on !  `` He is a man , '' said Lady Russell , `` whom I have no wish to see .  The lion and the people of Dublin went on , and pursued the tailor , until they came to the place where the fox was , and the fox greeted them , and said , `` The tailor and his wife were here this morning , and if you will loose me , I am swifter than you , and I will follow them , and overtake them . ''  When he had hoppity-kicked a good way , and was near Madrid , he came to a clump of bushes , where the Wind was caught fast .  She continued by the side of her sister , with little intermission the whole afternoon , calming every fear , satisfying every inquiry of her enfeebled spirits , supplying every succour , and watching almost every look and every breath .  A DIVINE IMAGE Cruelty has a human heart , And Jealousy a human face ; Terror the human form divine , And Secresy the human dress .  She could only resolve to avoid such self-delusion in future , and think with heightened gratitude of the extraordinary blessing of having one such truly sympathising friend as Lady Russell .  Emma was directly sure that he knew how to make himself agreeable ; the conviction was strengthened by what followed .  And drawing him a little aside , she whispered her persuasion that Lucy could not stay much longer .  She did : he was satisfied , and said no more .  But now , do not stand upon ceremony .  Her own behaviour had been so very improper !  I 'll investigate a bit . ''  In such a case , a plain and open avowal of his difficulties would have been more to his honour I think , as well as more consistent with his general character ; -- but I will not raise objections against any one 's conduct on so illiberal a foundation , as a difference in judgment from myself , or a deviation from what I may think right and consistent . ''  When he is married , if we have the good luck to live to another war , we shall see him do as you and I , and a great many others , have done .  On the present occasion , for the better entertainment of their visitor , towards whose amusement he felt himself bound to contribute , he wished to engage them for both .  The gentlemen spoke of his horse .  `` Why do you cry ? ''  `` Engagement ! ''  Sometimes I thought it had been -- but it never was . ''  She had been particularly unwell , however , suffering from headache to a degree , which made her aunt declare , that had the ball taken place , she did not think Jane could have attended it ; and it was charity to impute some of her unbecoming indifference to the languor of ill-health .  Mrs. Ferrars is certainly nothing to me at present -- but the time MAY come -- how soon it will come must depend upon herself -- when we may be very intimately connected . ''  Chapter 12  She liked him -- in spite of his gravity and reserve , she beheld in him an object of interest .  That Frank Churchill thought less of her than he had done , was indubitable .  `` But you will come again , '' said Emma .  It was a sad change .  It was bad enough that a Mrs Clay should be always before her ; but that a deeper hypocrite should be added to their party , seemed the destruction of everything like peace and comfort .  But then , Mrs. Goddard will want to see it. -- And I could take the pattern gown home any day .  Anne 's astonished air , and exclamation of wonder , made her pause , and in a calmer manner , she added ,  I perfectly understand your situation , however , Miss Woodhouse -- ( looking towards Mr. Woodhouse ) , Your father 's state of health must be a great drawback .  .  Presently the king fell asleep , while the service went on .  `` Ever hear her ! ''  `` Well ! ''  The wish of distinguishing her , as far as civility permitted , was very evident , though it could not often proceed beyond a look .  -- Which you know shewed him to be so very .  Those soft blue eyes , and all those natural graces , should not be wasted on the inferior society of Highbury and its connexions .  The little Gingerbread Boy ran on and on , until he came to a cow , by the roadside .  `` Yes , '' said Jane , `` we heard his kind offers , we heard every thing . ''  I wonder whereabouts they will upset to-day .  `` The consequence of which , I suppose , will be , '' said Mrs. Dashwood , `` since leisure has not promoted your own happiness , that your sons will be brought up to as many pursuits , employments , professions , and trades as Columella 's . ''  After Emma had talked about it for ten minutes , Mr. Woodhouse felt no unwillingness , and only made the usual stipulation of not sitting at the bottom of the table himself , with the usual regular difficulty of deciding who should do it for him .  `` Oh , Brother Brahmin , Brother Brahmin , '' said the Tiger , `` please let me out , to get a little drink !  To be sure , she knew that the seeds could not sprout in a single night , but she had a feeling that _something_ might happen at any moment .  Her present home , he could not but observe , was unfavourable to a nervous disorder : -- confined always to one room ; -- he could have wished it otherwise -- and her good aunt , though his very old friend , he must acknowledge to be not the best companion for an invalid of that description .  `` I see how it is , '' said she .  This lock of hair , which now he can so readily give up , was begged of me with the most earnest supplication .  Humph -- Harriet 's ready wit !  I wish I may not sink into `poor Emma ' with him at once. -- His tender compassion towards oppressed worth can go no farther . ''  And the lion in the water shook his mane and showed his teeth .  The invisible worm , That flies in the night , In the howling storm , Has found out thy bed Of crimson joy , And his dark secret love Does thy life destroy .  They were now approaching the cottage , and all idle topics were superseded .  .  I shall be at your service in half a minute . ''  So exceeding affable as she was ! -- You know how I dreaded the thoughts of seeing her ; -- but the very moment I was introduced , there was such an affability in her behaviour as really should seem to say , she had quite took a fancy to me .  Pratt ? ''  -- Three girls , the two eldest sixteen and fourteen , was an awful legacy for a mother to bequeath , an awful charge rather , to confide to the authority and guidance of a conceited , silly father .  He could hardly suppose I should neglect them .  No , it was too unkind .  She plays charmingly . ''  She spoke as she felt , with earnest regret and solicitude -- sincerely wishing that the circumstances which she collected from Miss Bates to be now actually determined on , might be as much for Miss Fairfax 's advantage and comfort as possible .  Every thing so good ! ''  `` Oh !  Tiny green leaves , a whole row of them , were pushing their way through the crust !  `` Oh !  Fortunately , however , it did cease .  Sir Walter , Elizabeth and Mrs Clay , returned one morning from Laura Place , with a sudden invitation from Lady Dalrymple for the same evening , and Anne was already engaged , to spend that evening in Westgate Buildings .  `` None of those things are what I want , '' said the king .  Blacky the Crow is forever dreaming and scheming and almost always it is of mischief .  He spread his arms and legs out just as far as he could , and that kept him from falling as fast and as hard as he otherwise would have done , because being spread out so flat that way , the air held him up a little .  Elinor said no more .  Such scarecrows as the streets were full of !  Brandon will be jealous , if she does not take care . ''  Elinor now began to make the tea , and Marianne was obliged to appear again .  She appeared to me to play well , that is , with considerable taste , but I know nothing of the matter myself. -- I am excessively fond of music , but without the smallest skill or right of judging of any body 's performance. -- I have been used to hear her 's admired ; and I remember one proof of her being thought to play well : -- a man , a very musical man , and in love with another woman -- engaged to her -- on the point of marriage -- would yet never ask that other woman to sit down to the instrument , if the lady in question could sit down instead -- never seemed to like to hear one if he could hear the other .  Here she took out her handkerchief ; but Elinor did not feel very compassionate .  The Cloud reclind upon his airy throne and answerd thus .  Oh ! ''  CHAPTER 15  `` I met William Larkins , '' continued Mr. Elton , `` as I got near the house , and he told me I should not find his master at home , but I did not believe him. -- William seemed rather out of humour .  `` No -- I have never seen Mr. Elton , '' she replied , starting on this appeal ; `` is he -- is he a tall man ? ''  I shall not discuss it here .  `` Thank you for rousing me , '' he replied .  One morning , about ten days after Mrs. Churchill 's decease , Emma was called downstairs to Mr. Weston , who `` could not stay five minutes , and wanted particularly to speak with her . ''  The Nightingale sang so beautifully that everybody who heard her remembered her song better than anything else that he heard or saw .  `` These are done by my eldest sister , '' said he ; `` and you , as a man of taste , will , I dare say , be pleased with them .  `` I know his heart , '' said Suliman , `` it is not all bad ; it is tainted , but not corrupt ; perhaps he will repent and come back to us a good king . ''  Which of the two sisters was preferred by Captain Wentworth was as yet quite doubtful , as far as Anne 's observation reached .  `` Oh !  Every qualification is raised at times , by the circumstances of the moment , to more than its real value ; and she was sometimes worried down by officious condolence to rate good-breeding as more indispensable to comfort than good-nature .  `` One ought to be at Enscombe , and know the ways of the family , before one decides upon what he can do , '' replied Mrs. Weston .  She could only hang over little Charles , with most disordered feelings .  It is always so in life .  The time was now drawing on , when Colonel Brandon might be expected back .  The flat where her mother and father lived was at the top of a big building , and you could n't see a great deal from the windows , except chimney-pots on other people 's roofs .  How have I delighted , as I walked , to see them driven in showers about me by the wind !  CHAPTER 23  `` Yes -- no -- never absolutely .  Soft is the very word for her eye -- of all epithets , the justest that could be given .  She wanted to hear many particulars of their engagement repeated again , she wanted more clearly to understand what Lucy really felt for Edward , whether there were any sincerity in her declaration of tender regard for him , and she particularly wanted to convince Lucy , by her readiness to enter on the matter again , and her calmness in conversing on it , that she was no otherwise interested in it than as a friend , which she very much feared her involuntary agitation , in their morning discourse , must have left at least doubtful .  The aunt was a capricious woman , and governed her husband entirely ; but it was not in Mr. Weston 's nature to imagine that any caprice could be strong enough to affect one so dear , and , as he believed , so deservedly dear .  `` Oh !  His property here , his place , his house , every thing is in such respectable and excellent condition ! -- and his woods ! -- I have not seen such timber any where in Dorsetshire , as there is now standing in Delaford Hanger ! -- And though , perhaps , Marianne may not seem exactly the person to attract him -- yet I think it would altogether be advisable for you to have them now frequently staying with you , for as Colonel Brandon seems a great deal at home , nobody can tell what may happen -- for , when people are much thrown together , and see little of anybody else -- and it will always be in your power to set her off to advantage , and so forth ; -- in short , you may as well give her a chance -- You understand me . ''  `` Oh !  They had no conversation together , no intercourse but what the commonest civility required .  `` Not at all , I believe , with you . ''  She was now lying on the faded sofa of the pretty little drawing-room , the once elegant furniture of which had been gradually growing shabby , under the influence of four summers and two children ; and , on Anne 's appearing , greeted her with --  Mr. and Mrs. Elton , indeed , shewed no unwillingness to mix , and be as agreeable as they could ; but during the two whole hours that were spent on the hill , there seemed a principle of separation , between the other parties , too strong for any fine prospects , or any cold collation , or any cheerful Mr. Weston , to remove .  Blake .  `` And who is Willoughby ? ''  If , however , by an unforeseen chance it should be in my power to serve him farther , I must think very differently of him from what I now do , if I am not as ready to be useful to him then as I sincerely wish I could be at present .  I felt for my sister most severely .  He would either have gloried in the achievement , or been ashamed of it .  But happily Lady Dalrymple always chooses to be farther off ; and we were exceedingly well placed , that is , for hearing ; I must not say for seeing , because I appear to have seen very little . ''  Now Emma could , indeed , enjoy Mr. Knightley 's visits ; now she could talk , and she could listen with true happiness , unchecked by that sense of injustice , of guilt , of something most painful , which had haunted her when remembering how disappointed a heart was near her , how much might at that moment , and at a little distance , be enduring by the feelings which she had led astray herself .  `` His character is now before you ; expensive , dissipated , and worse than both .  I really wish you to call with me .  His card was on the table when they came in from the morning 's drive .  But Marianne , not convinced , took it instantly up .  `` M.D . ''  When they passed the church steeple she wanted to say , `` What is that which shines ? ''  I am only ready whenever you are .  `` Emma knows I never flatter her , '' said Mr. Knightley , `` but I meant no reflection on any body .  Mr and Mrs Musgrove can not think it wrong while I remain with him . ''  CHAPTER XV  I should have made a good likeness of her , if she would have sat longer , but she was in such a hurry to have me draw her four children that she would not be quiet .  That he might not be irritated into an absolute fever , by the fire which Mr. Woodhouse 's tender habits required almost every evening throughout the year , he soon afterwards took a hasty leave , and walked home to the coolness and solitude of Donwell Abbey .  Little Lamb , God bless thee !  `` Go to him , Elinor , '' she cried , as soon as she could speak , `` and force him to come to me .  `` Indeed I believe you , '' replied Elinor ; `` but I am very sure that Colonel Brandon has not the smallest wish of marrying ME . ''  `` And I am sure , '' cried Mary , warmly , `` it was a very little to his credit , if he did .  you will think very differently , when you are married . '  Elinor said no more , and turning again to the three letters which now raised a much stronger curiosity than before , directly ran over the contents of all .  _Page 5._ ] But Little Joe would n't .  `` My engagements at present , '' replied Willoughby , confusedly , `` are of such a nature -- that -- I dare not flatter myself '' --  said the king .  `` No , '' said the City Mouse , `` I will take you to the cellar ; there is something specially fine there . ''  Weston . ''  `` Now , let us understand the situation , '' said the little Jackal .  He placed the lion 's tail in the hole he had made for it , and then clapped in a peg , and the lion was not able to draw out his tail again .  One was old , and the other of middle age .  Why should not they explore to Box Hill though the Sucklings did not come ?  But this , no doubt , you have been always doing .  I knew she would .  `` They told me -- that Mr. Martin dined with them last Saturday . ''  You would rob it of its simplicity by imaginary improvement !  She even proceeded so far as to be concerned to find that Elinor and her sister were so soon to leave town , as she had hoped to see more of them ; -- an exertion in which her husband , who attended her into the room , and hung enamoured over her accents , seemed to distinguish every thing that was most affectionate and graceful .  It had increased her comforts by making her feel herself to be in good hands .  After tea , Mr. and Mrs. Weston , and Mr. Elton sat down with Mr. Woodhouse to cards .  He spoke and looked so much in earnest , that Anne was not surprised to see Mrs Clay stealing a glance at Elizabeth and herself .  The wind blows cold , and here it is dark and lonely ; but that little boy is warm and happy and safe at his mother 's knees .  It was as much as Emma could bear , without being impolite .  He did n't mean to do it .  It would amuse away the difficulties of her part , and lessen the irksomeness of Miss Smith 's . ''  if you had seen her , as I did , when she was at the worst ! ''  `` I do not believe any such thing , '' replied Emma. -- '' I am persuaded that you can be as insincere as your neighbours , when it is necessary ; but there is no reason to suppose the instrument is indifferent .  Lady Middleton piqued herself upon the elegance of her table , and of all her domestic arrangements ; and from this kind of vanity was her greatest enjoyment in any of their parties .  But you , ( turning to Mr. Knightley , ) who know how very , very seldom I am ever two hours from Hartfield , why you should foresee such a series of dissipation for me , I can not imagine .  To treat her with unkindness , to speak of her slightingly is no atonement to Marianne -- nor can I suppose it a relief to your own conscience . ''  Mr. Weston was a native of Highbury , and born of a respectable family , which for the last two or three generations had been rising into gentility and property .  Something wonderful and holy seemed to make these services more beautiful than ever before .  Emma looked graciously .  She had had three weeks of happy exemption from Mr. Elton ; and Harriet 's mind , she had been willing to hope , had been lately gaining strength .  Then returning to his former earnest tone -- `` My first wish for all whom I am interested in , is that they should be firm .  She was stronger alone , and her own good sense so well supported her , that her firmness was as unshaken , her appearance of cheerfulness as invariable , as with regrets so poignant and so fresh , it was possible for them to be .  To begin without knowing that at such a time there will be the means of marrying , I hold to be very unsafe and unwise , and what I think all parents should prevent as far as they can . ''  It is not Willoughby .  Whenever he wanted anything to eat , all he had to do was to come up out of his cave in the stones and earth and _roar_ .  `` I live high in the air , '' he said , `` and I do no man any harm .  Lady Russell had little taste for wit , and of anything approaching to imprudence a horror .  David 's three older brothers went , but he was only a boy , so he was left behind to care for the sheep .  So , there was I , crowded into the back seat with Henrietta and Louise ; and I think it very likely that my illness to-day may be owing to it . ''  This was the knowledge of herself , on the first question of inquiry , which she reached ; and without being long in reaching it. -- She was most sorrowfully indignant ; ashamed of every sensation but the one revealed to her -- her affection for Mr .  She only wished that it were less openly shewn ; and once or twice did venture to suggest the propriety of some self-command to Marianne .  Poor little creatures , how unhappy she would have made them ! ''  I am Robert , the king ! ''  My Elinor , you do not yet know all my happiness .  All day he tracked the wood Up hill an ' down again ; An ' wid him , shmotherin ' in the bag , The little small Rid Hin .  He had hoped she would speak again , but she did not .  You do not know it I dare say , but two or three years ago I had a great passion for taking likenesses , and attempted several of my friends , and was thought to have a tolerable eye in general .  `` And -- were you much acquainted ? ''  Shall we walk , Augusta ? ''  So the artificial nightingale was given the real Nightingale 's little gold perch , and every night the Emperor wound her up , and she sang waltz tunes to him .  `` No ! ''  Mrs. Weston wants to see you .  said she , with a conscious look .  `` Say nothing , my dear Emma , while you oblige me to read -- not even of Mrs. Elton .  Mr. Perry could not quite understand him , but he was very sure there must be a _lady_ in the case , and he told him so ; and Mr. Elton only looked very conscious and smiling , and rode off in great spirits .  And while he was wondering , he ate it all up .  I was so astonished when she first told me what she had been saying to Mrs. Elton , and when Mrs. Elton at the same moment came congratulating me upon it !  `` She is a riddle , quite a riddle ! ''  I am sure you have , somehow or other , imbibed such a notion .  `` Which makes his good manners the more valuable .  A very few minutes more , however , completed the present trial .  When the beast heard this , it touched him so much that he stopped tearing at his chains , and became gentle .  `` What a great traveller you must have been , ma'am ! ''  Little lamb , Here I am ; Come and lick My white neck ; Let me pull Your soft wool ; Let me kiss Your soft face ; Merrily , merrily , to welcome in the year .  You must think one five hundred million times more above me than the other .  Little Brother Rabbit sniggered to himself .  Still , he did not mean to take any chances .  It was broken by Lucy , who renewed the subject again by saying , with some hesitation ,  You like news -- and I heard an article in my way hither that I think will interest you . ''  `` Who is there ? ''  `` And a very well-spoken , genteel , shrewd lady , she seemed to be , '' continued he ; `` asked more questions about the house , and terms , and taxes , than the Admiral himself , and seemed more conversant with business ; and moreover , Sir Walter , I found she was not quite unconnected in this country , any more than her husband ; that is to say , she is sister to a gentleman who did live amongst us once ; she told me so herself : sister to the gentleman who lived a few years back at Monkford .  It was one of the agreeable recollections of the ball , which she walked about the lawn the next morning to enjoy. -- She was extremely glad that they had come to so good an understanding respecting the Eltons , and that their opinions of both husband and wife were so much alike ; and his praise of Harriet , his concession in her favour , was peculiarly gratifying .  whispered the City Mouse .  One of the little girls was named Louisa .  My first doth affliction denote , Which my second is destin 'd to feel And my whole is the best antidote That affliction to soften and heal. --  I 'll go no nearer to him . ''  He looked so excited , and his eyes sparkled so , that every one knew right away that something had happened .  The others joined them , and it was a group in which Anne found herself also necessarily included .  We really must wish you good night . ''  `` Impossible !  His lameness prevented him from taking much exercise ; but a mind of usefulness and ingenuity seemed to furnish him with constant employment within .  Her husband was a grave looking young man of five or six and twenty , with an air of more fashion and sense than his wife , but of less willingness to please or be pleased .  Better be without sense , than misapply it as you do . ''  `` No , it by no means wanted strength -- it was not a large hand , but very clear and certainly strong .  Charles , I declare it will be too abominable if you do , when you promised to go . ''  Knightley was at Hartfield yesterday , and spoke of it as for Saturday . ''  His medicines had failed ; -- the fever was unabated ; and Marianne only more quiet -- not more herself -- remained in a heavy stupor .  Good fires and carriages would be much more to the purpose in most cases of delicate health , and I dare say in her 's .  Her mother , sisters , Fanny , all had been conscious of his regard for her at Norland ; it was not an illusion of her own vanity .  The truth is , Harriet , that my playing is just good enough to be praised , but Jane Fairfax 's is much beyond it . ''  `` Why were you trailing your three-edged pike ? ''  asked Isabella in the plaintive tone which just suited her father .  I speak , you know , only of such men as have hearts ! ''  `` Now I have done , '' cried Captain Wentworth .  I do suspect that he is not really necessary to my happiness .  For where she DOES dislike , I know it is most violent . ''  At first it was downright dulness to Emma .  I do not know .  Elinor wished very much to ask whether Willoughby were then in town , but she was afraid of giving him pain by any enquiry after his rival ; and at length , by way of saying something , she asked if he had been in London ever since she had seen him last .  And no apology left , no message for me .  The only way of proving it , however , will be to turn to our maps .  `` It is indeed for Mrs. Jennings ; how provoking ! ''  What a disappointment it would be !  Emma 's pensive meditations , as she walked home , were not interrupted ; but on entering the parlour , she found those who must rouse her .  Every part of it brought pain and humiliation , of some sort or other ; but , compared with the evil to Harriet , all was light ; and she would gladly have submitted to feel yet more mistaken -- more in error -- more disgraced by mis-judgment , than she actually was , could the effects of her blunders have been confined to herself .  `` This is beyond every thing ! ''  Emma felt the bad taste of her friend , but let it pass with a `` very true ; and it would be a small consolation to her , for the clownish manner which might be offending her every hour of the day , to know that her husband could write a good letter . ''  `` Mr. Brandon was very well I hope ? ''  I must buy something at Ford 's .  If he will adopt these regulations , in seven years he will be clear ; and I hope we may be able to convince him and Elizabeth , that Kellynch Hall has a respectability in itself which can not be affected by these reductions ; and that the true dignity of Sir Walter Elliot will be very far from lessened in the eyes of sensible people , by acting like a man of principle .  I have an idea he was standing just here . ''  come hither And see the opening morn , Image of Truth new-born .  At this moment I can not recollect his name , though I have heard it so lately .  Mrs. Dashwood now took pains to get acquainted with him .  begged the Tortoise .  cried Robert of Sicily .  ( turning to Mrs. Dashwood ) but you have made it so charming !  The Chamberlain , who was a very important person , said , `` There can not be any such person ; I have never heard his name . ''  Mr. Elton must now be left to himself .  There was intimacy between them , and Mr. Cole had heard from Mr. Elton since his going away .  `` He certainly means to have one or other of those two girls , Sophy , '' said the Admiral ; `` but there is no saying which .  I ought to travel .  `` Oh !  In short , it is a kind of thing that '' -- lowering his voice to an important whisper -- '' will be exceedingly welcome to ALL PARTIES . ''  Her manners , too -- and Mr. Elton 's , were unpleasant towards Harriet .  William Blake 's  He would look for her , he would find her out before the evening were over , and at present , perhaps , it was as well to be asunder .  But the little Gingerbread Boy laughed out loud .  `` If she had not known him to be in town she would not have written to him , as she did ; she would have written to Combe Magna ; and if he is in town , how odd that he should neither come nor write !  with the help of spectacles .  That rain was the Cloud 's great deed ; it was her death , too ; but it was also her glory .  The only time I ever really suffered in body or mind , the only time that I ever fancied myself unwell , or had any ideas of danger , was the winter that I passed by myself at Deal , when the Admiral ( Captain Croft then ) was in the North Seas .  I should not attempt it , if it were to be the means of inconvenience to the Highbury people , but if you call to mind exactly the present line of the path .  There had been no real affection either in his language or manners .  You are more likely to have done harm to yourself , than good to them , by interference . ''  Why , Buster Bear was running away too , and he was running twice as fast as Farmer Brown 's boy !  As for Mr. Elton , his manners did not appear -- but no , she would not permit a hasty or a witty word from herself about his manners .  Mrs. John Dashwood had never been a favourite with any of her husband 's family ; but she had had no opportunity , till the present , of shewing them with how little attention to the comfort of other people she could act when occasion required it .  Such a woman as I am sure Fanny will be glad to know .  He is desperately in love and means to marry her . ''  it is very fatiguing to him !  How , where , when ? -- Let me know it all .  `` Never fear , '' said the Elephant , `` I could pull twenty cows . ''  `` Yes , '' he replied , and without the smallest apparent embarrassment. -- `` But they would have done better had they given her notice of it .  But when evening falls , and they are rested , they break my twigs and scatter my leaves , and stone my boughs for more fruit .  His estate had been rated by Sir John at about six or seven hundred a year ; but he lived at an expense to which that income could hardly be equal , and he had himself often complained of his poverty .  Edward started -- '' Reserved !  `` How then , '' asked her sister , `` would you account for his behaviour ? ''  O virgin know'st thou not our steeds drink of the golden springs Where Luvah doth renew his horses : lookst thou on my youth .  It was really expected to be a good one , and Captain Wentworth was very fond of music .  Mrs Clay , who had been present while all this passed , now thought it advisable to leave the room , and Anne could have said much , and did long to say a little in defence of her friend 's not very dissimilar claims to theirs , but her sense of personal respect to her father prevented her .  After so many years , little Louisa 's wish came true : she bought a nice house for her family ; she sent one of her sisters to Europe , to study ; she gave her father books ; but best of all , she was able to see to it that the beloved mother , so tired and so ill , could have rest and happiness .  Had she tried to speak , or had she been conscious of half Mrs. Jennings 's well-meant but ill-judged attentions to her , this calmness could not have been maintained ; but not a syllable escaped her lips ; and the abstraction of her thoughts preserved her in ignorance of every thing that was passing before her .  `Nobody was ever so fortunate as herself ! '  `` Let me entreat you , '' cried Mr. Elton ; `` it would indeed be a delight !  And I know he has read the Vicar of Wakefield .  Let me entreat you to run no risks .  yes ; we are always forced to be acquainted whenever she comes to Highbury .  She had not time to know how Mr. Elton took the reproof , so rapidly did another subject succeed ; for Mr. John Knightley now came into the room from examining the weather , and opened on them all with the information of the ground being covered with snow , and of its still snowing fast , with a strong drifting wind ; concluding with these words to Mr. Woodhouse :  m-m ! ''  `` Good God ! ''  Their love of society , and their new dining-room , prepared every body for their keeping dinner-company ; and a few parties , chiefly among the single men , had already taken place .  She was a clever young woman , who understood the art of pleasing -- the art of pleasing , at least , at Kellynch Hall ; and who had made herself so acceptable to Miss Elliot , as to have been already staying there more than once , in spite of all that Lady Russell , who thought it a friendship quite out of place , could hint of caution and reserve .  He would n't have admitted that he was afraid of Buster Bear .  `` Oh , please , mighty and kindly Elephant , '' he said , making a very low bow , `` will you do me a favour ? ''  cried Little Joe .  `` Well , my dear , and did you get there safely ? -- And how did you find my worthy old friend and her daughter ? -- I dare say they must have been very much obliged to you for coming .  Then indeed I was amused , and somewhat distressed , to find how far I had wandered from the text .  Had not Mrs. Weston any letter about her to produce ? ''  `` Phoo !  Certainly his being at Randalls had given great spirit to the last two weeks -- indescribable spirit ; the idea , the expectation of seeing him which every morning had brought , the assurance of his attentions , his liveliness , his manners !  How would he bear to have Miss Bates belonging to him ? -- To have her haunting the Abbey , and thanking him all day long for his great kindness in marrying Jane ? -- `So very kind and obliging ! -- But he always had been such a very kind neighbour ! '  So afraid you might have a headache ! -- seeing you pass by so often , and knowing how much trouble you must have .  Its tendency would be to raise and refine her mind -- and it must be saving her from the danger of degradation .  I am sure Edward Ferrars is not well .  Lively as he was , it seemed a liveliness that did not satisfy himself ; but what decided her belief on the subject , was his staying only a quarter of an hour , and hurrying away to make other calls in Highbury .  She had soon the mortification of seeing Mr Elliot withdraw , and no one of proper condition has since presented himself to raise even the unfounded hopes which sunk with him .  There can be no doubt of its having been of the greatest service to Dr Shirley , after his illness , last spring twelve-month .  When he reached the first little pool he baited his hook very carefully and then , taking the greatest care to keep out of sight of any trout that might be in the little pool , he began to fish .  They had not long finished their breakfast before Mrs. Palmer 's barouche stopped at the door , and in a few minutes she came laughing into the room : so delighted to see them all , that it was hard to say whether she received most pleasure from meeting her mother or the Miss Dashwoods again .  She knew that at times she must be missed ; and could not think , without pain , of Emma 's losing a single pleasure , or suffering an hour 's ennui , from the want of her companionableness : but dear Emma was of no feeble character ; she was more equal to her situation than most girls would have been , and had sense , and energy , and spirits that might be hoped would bear her well and happily through its little difficulties and privations .  He had done his duty and could return to his son .  How unlucky !  Jane said so .  By and by the Moon peeped in at the window .  One would fancy we were bosom friends !  `` I have always thought it a very foolish intimacy , '' said Mr. Knightley presently , `` though I have kept my thoughts to myself ; but I now perceive that it will be a very unfortunate one for Harriet .  My mother was quite sick of it .  `` No , '' returned Elinor , cautious of giving her real opinion of Edward 's mother , and not very desirous of satisfying what seemed impertinent curiosity -- `` I know nothing of her . ''  They had scarcely been two minutes by themselves , before he began to speak of Edward ; for he , too , had heard of the living , and was very inquisitive on the subject .  `` She meant to be impertinently curious , just as such an Anne Cox should be . ''  You see how it has carried away her freckles . ''  Colonel Brandon tell you of it !  I am sure she saw me , but she looked away directly , and took no notice ; and they both went to quite the farther end of the shop ; and I kept sitting near the door ! -- Oh !  `` I wish to assure you both , '' said she , `` that I see every thing -- as you can desire me to do . ''  He was full of `to-morrow , ' and it is very evident that I have been full of it too , ever since I entered the house , and learnt the extension of your plan and all that had happened , or my seeing him could never have gone so entirely out of my head . ''  Her eyes were red and swollen ; and it seemed as if her tears were even then restrained with difficulty .  no ; I was pleased with my own perseverance in asking questions ; and amused to think how little information I obtained . ''  There was always sufficient reason for such an attention ; Mrs. and Miss Bates loved to be called on , and she knew she was considered by the very few who presumed ever to see imperfection in her , as rather negligent in that respect , and as not contributing what she ought to the stock of their scanty comforts .  She was then obliged to be finished , and make her appearance .  Emma spoke for her .  Again they all sat down , and for a moment or two all were silent ; while Marianne was looking with the most speaking tenderness , sometimes at Edward and sometimes at Elinor , regretting only that their delight in each other should be checked by Lucy 's unwelcome presence .  He stopt at their gate .  cried Elinor , `` could it be -- could Willoughby ! ''  I recollect .  The husband had died just in time to be spared the full knowledge of it .  She is a flatterer in all her ways ; and so much the worse , because undesigned .  `` No ! ''  But he did and was as grave and solemn as you please as he advised Little Joe always to make friends with any one who was bigger and stronger and smarter than he .  I never saw anything so charming !  `` You ought to know , Sammy Jay , '' said he .  She saw it all ; and entering into her feelings , promoted her quitting the house immediately , and watched her safely off with the zeal of a friend .  They visited in Laura Place , they had the cards of Dowager Viscountess Dalrymple , and the Honourable Miss Carteret , to be arranged wherever they might be most visible : and `` Our cousins in Laura Place , '' -- '' Our cousin , Lady Dalrymple and Miss Carteret , '' were talked of to everybody .  She believed she had been foolish , but it had alarmed her , and she had been within half a minute of sending for Mr. Perry .  `` I was very often influenced rightly by you -- oftener than I would own at the time .  He stepped ( imitate ) -- right -- in -- the -- middle -- of -- every -- one .  `` No , but it did not absolutely rain when I set out . ''  Anne was amused by Henrietta 's manner of being grateful , and amused also that the course of events and the new interests of Henrietta 's views should have placed her friend at all in favour with any of the Musgrove family ; she had only time , however , for a general answer , and a wish that such another woman were at Uppercross , before all subjects suddenly ceased , on seeing Louisa and Captain Wentworth coming towards them .  Sweet joy , but two days old .  You can send for us , you know , at a moment 's notice , if anything is the matter ; but I dare say there will be nothing to alarm you .  Quick and decided in her ways , Emma lost no time in inviting , encouraging , and telling her to come very often ; and as their acquaintance increased , so did their satisfaction in each other .  With such a confederacy against her -- with a knowledge so intimate of his goodness -- with a conviction of his fond attachment to herself , which at last , though long after it was observable to everybody else -- burst on her -- what could she do ?  `` Christmas weather , '' observed Mr. Elton .  You CAN have no grief . ''  how he 'll chuckle over this news !  He was so miserable when he left us at Longstaple , to go to you , that I was afraid you would think him quite ill . ''  `` _You_ probably have been less surprized than any of us , for you have had your suspicions. -- I have not forgotten that you once tried to give me a caution. -- I wish I had attended to it -- but -- ( with a sinking voice and a heavy sigh ) I seem to have been doomed to blindness . ''  But at present there was nothing more to be said .  We were just in time ; my mother just ready for us .  The weather continued much the same all the following morning ; and the same loneliness , and the same melancholy , seemed to reign at Hartfield -- but in the afternoon it cleared ; the wind changed into a softer quarter ; the clouds were carried off ; the sun appeared ; it was summer again .  Marianne 's abilities were , in many respects , quite equal to Elinor 's .  Of John I know very little , though we have lived together for years ; but of Willoughby my judgment has long been formed . ''  Things did not seem -- that is , there seemed a little cloud upon the spirits of some. -- So it appeared to me at least , but I might be mistaken .  Your secret is safe with me ; but pardon me if I express some surprise at so unnecessary a communication .  But though confidence between them was , by this public discovery , restored to its proper state , it was not a subject on which either of them were fond of dwelling when alone .  To complete every other recommendation , he had _almost_ told her that he loved her .  `` Did you ever have your likeness taken , Harriet ? ''  The very thing that we have always been rather afraid of ; for we should not have liked to have her at such a distance from us , for months together -- not able to come if any thing was to happen .  `` No indeed I have not .  `` Not I , indeed .  said the king .  She hardly knew yet what Mr. Knightley would ask ; but a very short parley with her own heart produced the most solemn resolution of never quitting her father. -- She even wept over the idea of it , as a sin of thought .  `` Well , my dear , '' he deliberately began , `` considering we never saw her before , she seems a very pretty sort of young lady ; and I dare say she was very much pleased with you .  I declare I have not a comfort or an indulgence about me , even at Kellynch Hall , '' ( with a kind bow to Anne ) , `` beyond what I always had in most of the ships I have lived in ; and they have been five altogether . ''  I lived in perpetual fright at that time , and had all manner of imaginary complaints from not knowing what to do with myself , or when I should hear from him next ; but as long as we could be together , nothing ever ailed me , and I never met with the smallest inconvenience . ''  Yet she soon began to rejoice that she had heard them .  `` Must I go first ?  Marianne saw and listened with increasing surprise .  While she talked of his son , Mr. Weston 's attention was chained ; but when she got to Maple Grove , he could recollect that there were ladies just arriving to be attended to , and with happy smiles must hurry away .  No , no !  She was pleased , on taking leave , to find Miss Fairfax determined to attend her out of the room , to go with her even downstairs ; it gave her an opportunity which she immediately made use of , to say ,  He hoped they would all excuse the smallness of the party , and could assure them it should never happen so again .  She had always wanted to do every thing , and had made more progress both in drawing and music than many might have done with so little labour as she would ever submit to .  If he had never esteemed my opinion before , he would have thought highly of me then ; and , I dare say , left the house thinking me the best friend and counsellor man ever had .  Others even arose to confirm it .  There was a family of cousins within a walk of Uppercross , in less affluent circumstances , who depended on the Musgroves for all their pleasures : they would come at any time , and help play at anything , or dance anywhere ; and Anne , very much preferring the office of musician to a more active post , played country dances to them by the hour together ; a kindness which always recommended her musical powers to the notice of Mr and Mrs Musgrove more than anything else , and often drew this compliment ; -- `` Well done , Miss Anne !  `` It locks like this , '' said the Brahmin .  Thank God !  A dozen times a day Buster would hear them screaming this .  But I was willing to shew you that I had not forgot our old disputes . ''  There was one , however , which Emma thought something of. -- The two last dances before supper were begun , and Harriet had no partner ; -- the only young lady sitting down ; -- and so equal had been hitherto the number of dancers , that how there could be any one disengaged was the wonder ! -- But Emma 's wonder lessened soon afterwards , on seeing Mr. Elton sauntering about .  `` Poor Frederick ! ''  He kept wondering , while they took him in through some big doors , and set him up in another tub , on the table , in a bare little room .  `` I hope , '' said he presently , `` I have not been severe upon poor Mrs. Churchill .  `` How strange this is !  They were looking over views in Swisserland .  The last office of the four carriage-horses was to draw Sir Walter , Miss Elliot , and Mrs Clay to Bath .  I will not allow it to be more man 's nature than woman 's to be inconstant and forget those they do love , or have loved .  He was invited again to Camden Place the very evening of his return ; but from Thursday to Saturday evening his absence was certain .  Sir John and Lady Middleton wished it very much .  He wanted to animate her curiosity again as to how and where he could have heard her formerly praised ; wanted very much to be gratified by more solicitation ; but the charm was broken : he found that the heat and animation of a public room was necessary to kindle his modest cousin 's vanity ; he found , at least , that it was not to be done now , by any of those attempts which he could hazard among the too-commanding claims of the others .  And I hate Italian singing. -- There is no understanding a word of it .  So the two little brown-coated scamps turned down the Laughing Brook , taking the greatest care to keep out of sight themselves .  papa -- that is what you never have been able to accomplish , and I do not think you ever will .  `` Come Miss Woodhouse , Miss Otway , Miss Fairfax , what are you all doing ? -- Come Emma , set your companions the example .  I know !  No gifts for Piccola !  Snow-white in the sun , with great wings beating and soaring , in hundreds and hundreds , they rose and circled and came on .  There is a sort of domestic enjoyment to be known even in a crowd , and this you had .  Elizabeth , though resenting the suspicion , might yet be made observant by it .  It would be a charming introduction for you , who have lived so secluded a life ; and I could immediately secure you some of the best society in the place .  He joined them ; but , as if irresolute whether to join or to pass on , said nothing , only looked .  When he got home his Mammy looked at the thing on the end of the string , and she said , -- `` My laws a-massy !  Down , down it sank , ship and giants and millstones , and in that spot , in the very middle of the ocean , arose a whirlpool , from whence the salt is carried north and south , east and west , throughout the waters of the earth .  The Crofts who rent Kellynch ?  At last , however , and after I had been six months in England , I DID find her .  She is fastidious .  Had I sat down to wish for any possible good to my family , I should have fixed on Colonel Brandon 's marrying one of you as the object most desirable .  But it was of no use .  He had received a good education , but , on succeeding early in life to a small independence , had become indisposed for any of the more homely pursuits in which his brothers were engaged , and had satisfied an active , cheerful mind and social temper by entering into the militia of his county , then embodied .  What is it ? -- why do you smile so ? -- where did you hear it ? -- at Randalls ? ''  I shall certainly be at leisure . ''  The pianoforte at which Marianne , wrapped up in her own music and her own thoughts , had by this time forgotten that any body was in the room besides herself , was luckily so near them that Miss Dashwood now judged she might safely , under the shelter of its noise , introduce the interesting subject , without any risk of being heard at the card-table .  It was no more than a wish .  Her ignorance is hourly flattery .  If he means any thing , it must be to please you .  She knows now what gentlemen are ; and nothing but a gentleman in education and manner has any chance with Harriet . ''  She could soon tell at what coachmaker 's the new carriage was building , by what painter Mr. Willoughby 's portrait was drawn , and at what warehouse Miss Grey 's clothes might be seen .  If he had but asked who the party were !  They hurried on , and were speedily at Randalls. -- '' Well , my dear , '' said he , as they entered the room -- '' I have brought her , and now I hope you will soon be better .  Donavan says there is nothing materially to be apprehended ; her constitution is a good one , and her resolution equal to any thing .  The particular circumstances between them made a difficulty of that which to any other person would have been the easiest thing in the world ; but she equally feared to say too much or too little , and sat deliberating over her paper , with the pen in her band , till broken in on by the entrance of Edward himself .  The folks of the Great House were to spend the evening of this day at the Cottage ; and it being now too late in the year for such visits to be made on foot , the coach was beginning to be listened for , when the youngest Miss Musgrove walked in .  A worthy employment for a young lady 's mind !  And one day when Anne was walking with only the Musgroves , one of them after talking of rank , people of rank , and jealousy of rank , said , `` I have no scruple of observing to you , how nonsensical some persons are about their place , because all the world knows how easy and indifferent you are about it ; but I wish anybody could give Mary a hint that it would be a great deal better if she were not so very tenacious , especially if she would not be always putting herself forward to take place of mamma .  Do you think it will look well ? ''  Their intended excursion to Whitwell turned out very different from what Elinor had expected .  The more she looked at them the more it seemed to Margery that they looked exactly as the radish looked when it first came up .  The difference of Harriet at Mrs. Goddard 's , or in London , made perhaps an unreasonable difference in Emma 's sensations ; but she could not think of her in London without objects of curiosity and employment , which must be averting the past , and carrying her out of herself .  If it were war now , he would have settled it long ago .  `` I have no doubt of their being happy together , '' said Emma ; `` I believe them to be very mutually and very sincerely attached . ''  `` No , ma'am , for my mistress . ''  Elton ? ''  Surely this comparison must have its use with her .  Mr Brown had seen gardeners do it when he was a little boy , and he did it very nicely : he walked along the sides of the square , with one foot turned a little out , and the other straight , taking such tiny steps that his feet touched each other all the time .  While she with the truest affection had been planning a most eligible connection for him , was it to be supposed that he could be all the time secretly engaged to another person ! -- such a suspicion could never have entered her head !  But the compassionate feelings of a friend of her father gave a change to her destiny .  Miss Woodhouse !  Lady Middleton was not more than six or seven and twenty ; her face was handsome , her figure tall and striking , and her address graceful .  South End is prohibited , if you please .  Emma knew that she had , but would not own it ; and Mr. Elton warmly added ,  `` As you do us such ample justice now , '' said Emma , laughing , `` I will venture to ask , whether you did not come a little doubtfully at first ?  He remembered the days and nights he used to spend in the fields with the sheep , when he was just a shepherd-boy ; and he thought to himself that God had taken care of him just as carefully as he himself used to care for the little lambs .  It seemed an unnecessary caution ; Jane was wanting to give her words , not to Mrs. Elton , but to Miss Woodhouse , as the latter plainly saw .  It was impossible but that Mrs Clay must hate the sight of Mr Elliot ; and yet she could assume a most obliging , placid look , and appear quite satisfied with the curtailed license of devoting herself only half as much to Sir Walter as she would have done otherwise .  `` Dear , dear Norland , '' said Elinor , `` probably looks much as it always does at this time of the year .  `` Another year or two may do much towards it , '' he gravely replied ; `` but however there is still a great deal to be done .  Elinor , this eldest daughter , whose advice was so effectual , possessed a strength of understanding , and coolness of judgment , which qualified her , though only nineteen , to be the counsellor of her mother , and enabled her frequently to counteract , to the advantage of them all , that eagerness of mind in Mrs. Dashwood which must generally have led to imprudence .  There being nothing to eat , he could only have some play ; and as his aunt would not let him tease his sick brother , he began to fasten himself upon her , as she knelt , in such a way that , busy as she was about Charles , she could not shake him off .  To me it would seem only a commercial exchange , in which each wished to be benefited at the expense of the other . ''  It seemed too precious an offering for any degree of publicity .  Presently , struck by a sudden thought , Charles said --  It will only be sending Betty by the coach , and I hope I can afford THAT .  Little by little , as he thought it all over , a look of shame crept into his face .  There could be only the most proper alacrity , a most obliging compliance for public view ; and smiles reined in and spirits dancing in private rapture .  Once so much to each other !  `` Pray do .  You see it was this way : When Buster found that big tin pail brimming full of delicious berries in the shade of that big bush in the Old Pasture , he did n't stop to think whether or not he had a right to them .  Make a civil message ; but I shall only leave my card .  `` Really , '' said Elinor , `` I know so little of these kind of forms , that I can hardly even conjecture as to the time , or the preparation necessary ; but I suppose two or three months will complete his ordination . ''  The woman was better off ; she might have the assistance of fine clothes , and the privilege of bashfulness , but the man had only his own good sense to depend on ; and when she considered how peculiarly unlucky poor Mr. Elton was in being in the same room at once with the woman he had just married , the woman he had wanted to marry , and the woman whom he had been expected to marry , she must allow him to have the right to look as little wise , and to be as much affectedly , and as little really easy as could be .  `` They mean no less to be civil and kind to us now , '' said Elinor , `` by these frequent invitations , than by those which we received from them a few weeks ago .  repeated Mrs. Jennings -- '' Oh !  Emma was rather in dismay when only half a minute afterwards he began to speak of other things , and in a voice of the greatest alacrity and enjoyment .  But a sudden and noble resolve came to the Dewdrop .  `` But I thought you would .  Sometimes he heard a child crying .  The angel came to him , and told him to go to a certain village on the other side of the mountain , and to a small farm in it , where two women lived .  They were soon within thirty yards of the gentleman .  `` What does this mean , Friend Mouse-deer ? ''  Emma accepted it with a very eager hand , with an impatience all alive to know what he would say about it , and not at all checked by hearing that her friend was unmentioned .  Mrs. Jennings , in the meantime , talked on as loud as she could , and continued her account of their surprise , the evening before , on seeing their friends , without ceasing till every thing was told .  Harriet had no penetration .  The distressing explanation she had to make to Harriet , and all that poor Harriet would be suffering , with the awkwardness of future meetings , the difficulties of continuing or discontinuing the acquaintance , of subduing feelings , concealing resentment , and avoiding eclat , were enough to occupy her in most unmirthful reflections some time longer , and she went to bed at last with nothing settled but the conviction of her having blundered most dreadfully .  All the overpowering , blinding , bewildering , first effects of strong surprise were over with her .  They were received with great cordiality .  Charles , in his real concern and good nature , would go home with her ; there was no preventing him .  `` I have heard it asserted , '' said John Knightley , `` that the same sort of handwriting often prevails in a family ; and where the same master teaches , it is natural enough .  What an ill-natured woman his mother is , a n't she ?  Can not you imagine , Mr. Knightley , what a _sensation_ his coming will produce ?  I was prepared to meet you with the pleasure which our separation naturally produced , with the familiarity which our intimacy at Barton appeared to me to justify .  But I made my face as hard and cruel as the rest , and she turned away , hopeless .  This happened the night before last .  His chief reward for the painful exertion of disclosing past sorrows and present humiliations , was given in the pitying eye with which Marianne sometimes observed him , and the gentleness of her voice whenever ( though it did not often happen ) she was obliged , or could oblige herself to speak to him .  William Larkins mentioned it here .  Margery 's father took her in his arms .  `` Lady Middleton is really a most elegant woman !  Elinor felt equal amazement .  Marianne got up and walked about the room .  This is the way in which I always consider the matter , and my mother is perfectly convinced of her error . ''  When the visit was returned , Emma made up her mind .  Is it true , pray ?  said the little Jackal .  Now , however , we must wish you and Mrs. Bates good morning . ''  said Marianne , `` money can only give happiness where there is nothing else to give it .  It is the garden of England , you know .  Mrs. Weston added , `` that he could only allow himself time to hurry to Highbury , after breakfast , and take leave of the few friends there whom he could suppose to feel any interest in him ; and that he might be expected at Hartfield very soon . ''  Mind me , now , if they a n't married by Mid-summer .  He was not an ill-disposed young man , unless to be rather cold hearted and rather selfish is to be ill-disposed : but he was , in general , well respected ; for he conducted himself with propriety in the discharge of his ordinary duties .  yes , -- I am quite convinced that , with very few exceptions , the sea-air always does good .  `` Not quite , a few lines more .  Emma could not have a better companion than Harriet . ''  Twelve years had changed Anne from the blooming , silent , unformed girl of fifteen , to the elegant little woman of seven-and-twenty , with every beauty except bloom , and with manners as consciously right as they were invariably gentle ; and twelve years had transformed the fine-looking , well-grown Miss Hamilton , in all the glow of health and confidence of superiority , into a poor , infirm , helpless widow , receiving the visit of her former protegee as a favour ; but all that was uncomfortable in the meeting had soon passed away , and left only the interesting charm of remembering former partialities and talking over old times .  `` But was not she a very low woman ? ''  `` Mr. Palmer does not hear me , '' said she , laughing ; `` he never does sometimes .  Lady Russell was extremely sorry that such a measure should have been resorted to at all , wondered , grieved , and feared ; and the affront it contained to Anne , in Mrs Clay 's being of so much use , while Anne could be of none , was a very sore aggravation .  To suffer her to engage herself -- to suffer her even to think of such a measure ! ''  It would be of no use to go to Uppercross again , for that other Miss Musgrove , I find , is bespoke by her cousin , the young parson .  Sweet dreams of pleasant streams By happy , silent , moony beams !  `` No , indeed , '' cried Emma , most happy to begin , `` not in the least .  It had not been built many years and was in good repair .  That he should never have been able to indulge so amiable a feeling before , passed suspiciously through Emma 's brain ; but still , if it were a falsehood , it was a pleasant one , and pleasantly handled .  he cried , `` I wish your father might be half as easily convinced as John will be , of our having every right that equal worth can give , to be happy together .  Is he coming , Louisa ? ''  Captain Harville smiled , as much as to say , `` Do you claim that for your sex ? ''  And so he was so surprised that he had hard work to believe his own eyes , and he had a queer feeling all over , -- a little chilly feeling , although it was a warm day .  Do not imagine me in danger of forgetting it . ''  Troubles soon arose .  Were she your equal in situation -- but , Emma , consider how far this is from being the case .  There is something that I used to have and do n't have now .  It was short , but expressed good sense , warm attachment , liberality , propriety , even delicacy of feeling .  You are the worst judge in the world , Mr. Knightley , of the difficulties of dependence .  She looked back as well as she could ; but it was all confusion .  `` Your Majesty knows , '' said the Great Lizard , `` that I am Chief Protector of the Sword .  `` Has no letter been left here for me since we went out ? ''  Mrs. Weston looked , and looked in vain .  I dared not address her openly ; my difficulties in the then state of Enscombe must be too well known to require definition ; and I was fortunate enough to prevail , before we parted at Weymouth , and to induce the most upright female mind in the creation to stoop in charity to a secret engagement. -- Had she refused , I should have gone mad. -- But you will be ready to say , what was your hope in doing this ? -- What did you look forward to ? -- To any thing , every thing -- to time , chance , circumstance , slow effects , sudden bursts , perseverance and weariness , health and sickness .  All the better .  And so , as the hermit climbed the mountain again , he thought , -- `` As he saw the star-like glow Of light , in the cottage windows far , How many God 's hidden servants are ! ''  Elinor , with a very heavy heart , aware of the pain she was going to communicate , and perceiving , by Marianne 's letter , how ill she had succeeded in laying any foundation for it , then sat down to write her mother an account of what had passed , and entreat her directions for the future ; while Marianne , who came into the drawing-room on Mrs. Jennings 's going away , remained fixed at the table where Elinor wrote , watching the advancement of her pen , grieving over her for the hardship of such a task , and grieving still more fondly over its effect on her mother .  Come on , everybody !  These parlors are both too small for such parties of our friends as I hope to see often collected here ; and I have some thoughts of throwing the passage into one of them with perhaps a part of the other , and so leave the remainder of that other for an entrance ; this , with a new drawing room which may be easily added , and a bed-chamber and garret above , will make it a very snug little cottage .  They will have their barouche-landau , of course , which holds four perfectly ; and therefore , without saying any thing of _our_ carriage , we should be able to explore the different beauties extremely well .  Could she have believed it a week ago ; three hours ago !  I dare say we shall have nothing to distress us .  If she were to meet Miss Bates in her way ! -- and upon its beginning to rain , Emma was obliged to expect that the weather would be detaining her at Mrs. Goddard 's , and that the intelligence would undoubtedly rush upon her without preparation .  Miss Dashwood , at this point , turning her eyes on him with the most angry contempt , stopped him , by saying ,  `` Never mind , Harriet , I shall not be a poor old maid ; and it is poverty only which makes celibacy contemptible to a generous public !  exclaimed Mrs Clay , lifting her hands and eyes , and sinking all the rest of her astonishment in a convenient silence .  `` Anne , Anne , '' cried Charles , `` What is to be done next ?  Before he could return to his chair , it was taken by Mrs. Weston .  That makes him just as much a thief , does n't it ? ''  Why did n't you come before ? ''  Former provocations reappeared .  He positively said that it had been known to no being in the world but their two selves . ''  She spoke to him , ordered , entreated , and insisted in vain .  she asked .  That 's no way to carry cake .  I think Mr. John Knightley very far from looking well . ''  He coloured very deeply , and giving a momentary glance at Elinor , replied , `` Yes ; it is my sister 's hair .  `` I do not offer it for Miss Smith 's collection , '' said he .  He and his wife had taken their intended drive , and were returning home .  He wished the road might be impassable , that he might be able to keep them all at Randalls ; and with the utmost good-will was sure that accommodation might be found for every body , calling on his wife to agree with him , that with a little contrivance , every body might be lodged , which she hardly knew how to do , from the consciousness of there being but two spare rooms in the house .  Guess this Old Pasture is no place for me to-day .  But yet -- he is not the kind of young man -- there is something wanting -- his figure is not striking ; it has none of that grace which I should expect in the man who could seriously attach my sister .  But you look grave , Marianne ; do you disapprove your sister 's choice ? ''  And , by the bye , can I or my housekeeper be of any use to you with our opinion ? -- Pray be sincere , Knightley .  Elsa flew about from one thing to another , and the ten fairies did the work , just right .  See !  What were you hammering at then ? ''  She was sure that he had not been happy in marriage .  The kingly lion stood , And the virgin viewed : Then he gambolled round O'er the hallowed ground .  We were speaking of it only yesterday , and agreeing how fortunate it was for Emma , that there should be such a girl in Highbury for her to associate with .  The ring annoyed him terribly ; it was embarrassing for a king to have a drop of blood on his finger all the time !  Emma could not feel a doubt of having given Harriet 's fancy a proper direction and raised the gratitude of her young vanity to a very good purpose , for she found her decidedly more sensible than before of Mr. Elton 's being a remarkably handsome man , with most agreeable manners ; and as she had no hesitation in following up the assurance of his admiration by agreeable hints , she was soon pretty confident of creating as much liking on Harriet 's side , as there could be any occasion for .  `` I never had any conjectures about it , '' replied Margaret ; `` it was you who told me of it yourself . ''  The party from Uppercross passing down by the now deserted and melancholy looking rooms , and still descending , soon found themselves on the sea-shore ; and lingering only , as all must linger and gaze on a first return to the sea , who ever deserved to look on it at all , proceeded towards the Cobb , equally their object in itself and on Captain Wentworth 's account : for in a small house , near the foot of an old pier of unknown date , were the Harvilles settled .  Do not you think , Anne , it is being over-scrupulous ?  Mary sat down for a moment , but it would not do ; she was sure Louisa had found a better seat somewhere else , and she would go on till she overtook her .  V GRANDFATHER FROG 'S COMMON-SENSE There is nothing quite like common sense to smooth out troubles .  Ambition , as well as love , had probably been mortified .  While poor Mrs. Churchill lived , I suppose there could not have been a hope , a chance , a possibility ; -- but scarcely are her remains at rest in the family vault , than her husband is persuaded to act exactly opposite to what she would have required .  You can have no superior , but most true on mine. -- She is a complete angel .  `` I did not know I contradicted any body in calling your mother ill-bred . ''  I dare say Mr. Knightley will be so kind as to meet him . ''  Against the interest of her own individual comfort , Mrs. Dashwood had determined that it would be better for Marianne to be any where , at that time , than at Barton , where every thing within her view would be bringing back the past in the strongest and most afflicting manner , by constantly placing Willoughby before her , such as she had always seen him there .  In he walked , the first and the handsomest ; and after paying his compliments en passant to Miss Bates and her niece , made his way directly to the opposite side of the circle , where sat Miss Woodhouse ; and till he could find a seat by her , would not sit at all .  He found this just as muddy as the other .  This , you know , speaks a great degree of weakness -- but now she is so impatient to be in town , that she means to sleep only two nights on the road. -- So Frank writes word .  Instead of staying at Lyme , he went off to Plymouth , and then he went off to see Edward .  I could not bear the idea of it ; so , as soon as Mr. Weston came into the room , and I could get at him , I spoke to him about the carriage .  But , though discomfited and disappointed , he could still do something for his own interest and his own enjoyment .  But as they drew towards the end of it , their interest in the appearance of a country which they were to inhabit overcame their dejection , and a view of Barton Valley as they entered it gave them cheerfulness .  `` This must have been about that very period of Mr Elliot 's life , '' said Anne , `` which has always excited my particular curiosity .  He drove the sharp end of the plough into the soil , and held it firmly so , while the horses drew it along in a straight line .  She declared them to be very agreeable girls indeed , which for her ladyship was enthusiastic admiration .  Emma 's only surprize was that Jane Fairfax should accept those attentions and tolerate Mrs. Elton as she seemed to do .  -- But this note made me know myself better .  `` I am going home , and you have an engagement with your friend .  THE LITTLE GIRL LOST In futurity I prophetic see That the earth from sleep ( Grave the sentence deep ) Shall arise , and seek for her Maker meek ; And the desert wild Become a garden mild .  `` Might he be trusted with the commission , what infinite pleasure should he have in executing it !  ( That was one of the laws of warfare in those times . )  Sir John , who called on them more than once , brought home such accounts of the favour they were in , as must be universally striking .  Let me plead for my -- present friend I can not call him , but for my former friend .  With all these circumstances , recollections and feelings , she could not hear that Captain Wentworth 's sister was likely to live at Kellynch without a revival of former pain ; and many a stroll , and many a sigh , were necessary to dispel the agitation of the idea .  who can require it ? ''  The villagers had caught him and shut him up there for his wickedness .  I can imagine your objection to Harriet Smith .  When you come to a frigate , of course , you are more confined ; though any reasonable woman may be perfectly happy in one of them ; and I can safely say , that the happiest part of my life has been spent on board a ship .  `` I have always admired her complexion , '' replied Emma , archly ; `` but do not I remember the time when you found fault with her for being so pale ? -- When we first began to talk of her. -- Have you quite forgotten ? ''  How was the truth to reach him ?  Perhaps it would have been as well if he had left it wholly to myself .  Marianne restored to life , health , friends , and to her doting mother , was an idea to fill her heart with sensations of exquisite comfort , and expand it in fervent gratitude ; -- but it lead to no outward demonstrations of joy , no words , no smiles .  Epaminondas , what you got in your hat ? ''  This of course made every body laugh ; and Elinor tried to laugh too .  Papa , do you not think it an excellent improvement ? ''  She would not take a denial .  But about the middle of the day she gets hungry , and there is nothing she likes so well as these baked apples , and they are extremely wholesome , for I took the opportunity the other day of asking Mr. Perry ; I happened to meet him in the street .  You saw what she said .  `` No , not all , '' answered Marianne ; `` we could not be more unfortunately situated . ''  `` Do you mean that she refused him ? ''  Jane was forced to smile completely , for a moment ; and the smile partly remained as she turned towards him , and said in a conscious , low , yet steady voice ,  It is rather from feeling how impossible it is , with all one 's efforts , and all one 's sacrifices , to make the accommodations on board such as women ought to have .  The Lion is dead !  Kind Mr Alligator !  The former left them soon after tea to fulfill her evening engagements ; and Elinor was obliged to assist in making a whist table for the others .  You shall be the servant of the servants , and your companion shall , be the jester 's ape . ''  `` You should not have suspected me now ; the case is so different , and my age is so different .  `` You wrong her exceedingly .  `How could he contrive to come ?  He came to the part of the room where the sitters-by were collected , spoke to some , and walked about in front of them , as if to shew his liberty , and his resolution of maintaining it .  After the brothers had been gone some time , David 's father longed very much to hear from them , and to know if they were safe ; so he sent for David , from the fields , and said to him , `` Take now for thy brothers an ephah of this parched corn , and these ten loaves , and run to the camp , where thy brothers are ; and carry these ten cheeses to the captain of their thousand , and see how thy brothers fare , and bring me word again . ''  Oh !  Then he hoed a trench , a few inches deep , the whole length of the cord , and scattered fertiliser in it .  It is yet too early in life to despair of such a happiness .  Worse than all !  My dear Jane , are you sure you did not wet your feet ? -- It was but a drop or two , but I am so afraid : -- but Mr. Frank Churchill was so extremely -- and there was a mat to step upon -- I shall never forget his extreme politeness. -- Oh !  The plan of a drain , the change of a fence , the felling of a tree , and the destination of every acre for wheat , turnips , or spring corn , was entered into with as much equality of interest by John , as his cooler manners rendered possible ; and if his willing brother ever left him any thing to inquire about , his inquiries even approached a tone of eagerness .  But so eager and so resolute !  `` Me ! ''  To your fine mind , I well know the sight of beauty is a real gratification . ''  It was accepted ; and from that period Jane had belonged to Colonel Campbell 's family , and had lived with them entirely , only visiting her grandmother from time to time .  He seems a most gentlemanlike man ; and I think , Elinor , I may congratulate you on the prospect of a very respectable establishment in life . ''  `` And there will be the two Gilberts , young Cox , my father , and myself , besides Mr. Knightley .  Anne herself was become hardened to such affronts ; but she felt the imprudence of the arrangement quite as keenly as Lady Russell .  `` I am glad you think I have been useful to her ; but Harriet only wanted drawing out , and receiving a few , very few hints .  CHAPTER VI  It was to be a whole-length in water-colours , like Mr. John Knightley 's , and was destined , if she could please herself , to hold a very honourable station over the mantelpiece .  `` Why , to be sure , '' said Mr. Woodhouse -- '' yes , certainly -- I can not deny that Mrs. Weston , poor Mrs. Weston , does come and see us pretty often -- but then -- she is always obliged to go away again . ''  The fox went into it , and when the tailor had him down , he shut him in .  cried Elinor , `` what do you mean ?  A proper establishment of servants , a carriage , perhaps two , and hunters , can not be supported on less . ''  Miss Nash had been telling her something , which she repeated immediately with great delight .  This was bad enough , for he knew just how funny he must look , and besides , it was very uncomfortable .  I never compliment .  yes , I am quite aware of that .  Poor Mr. Woodhouse trembled as he sat , and , as Emma had foreseen , would scarcely be satisfied without their promising never to go beyond the shrubbery again .  But there was nobody to wind the little gold nightingale up , and of course it could not sing .  But he spoke gruffly enough to the postman , `` This must be a foolish boy ; a small one , I have no doubt . ''  But they live very comfortably .  Alas !  And that is just what Buster Bear was doing , and it was very plain to see that he was having great fun .  Well , now I have just given you a hint of what Jane writes about , we will turn to her letter , and I am sure she tells her own story a great deal better than I can tell it for her . ''  But I am very glad to find it was only my own fancy , and that you really do not blame me .  A sparrow , that in at the window flew , Had crept into Piccola 's tiny shoe !  She could think only of the invitation she had with such astonishment witnessed , and of the manner in which it had been received ; a manner of doubtful meaning , of surprise rather than gratification , of polite acknowledgement rather than acceptance .  `` And the bulk of your fortune would be laid out in annuities on the authors or their heirs . ''  Your exclamation is very natural . ''  They thanked her ; but were obliged to resist all her entreaties .  You will not see him .  They quitted it only with the removal of the tea-things .  And every day , as she worked by the window , she saw the little motherless children from the orphan asylum , near by , working and playing about .  I always say there is something direful in the sound : but nothing more is positively known of the Tupmans , though a good many things I assure you are suspected ; and yet by their manners they evidently think themselves equal even to my brother , Mr. Suckling , who happens to be one of their nearest neighbours .  for the very moment Mr. Cole told Mrs. Cole of it , she sat down and wrote to me .  It could not be otherwise .  `` He had never seen so lovely a face , and was delighted with her naivete . ''  Why do n't you speak to me , little House ?  Now Buster Bear had lived by himself in the Great Woods so long that this habit of talking to himself had grown and grown .  said the lion .  He saw no fault in the room , he would acknowledge none which they suggested .  So she poked her head through ; and she was in the midst of a beautiful garden .  `` He can not bear writing , you know , '' she continued -- `` he says it is quite shocking . ''  John Dashwood had not much to say for himself that was worth hearing , and his wife had still less .  Every body seemed happy ; and the praise of being a delightful ball , which is seldom bestowed till after a ball has ceased to be , was repeatedly given in the very beginning of the existence of this .  How much may not a few months do ? ''  My brother did not deserve her ; he did not even love her .  I have been doubting and considering as to what I ought to tell you .  `` Undoubtedly , if they had known your engagement , '' said she , `` nothing could be more flattering than their treatment of you ; -- but as that was not the case '' --  The dinner was a grand one , the servants were numerous , and every thing bespoke the Mistress 's inclination for show , and the Master 's ability to support it .  He knew there must be plenty on the other side , if he could only get to them , but he could not swim .  `` I wish we could contrive it , '' said she ; `` but I can not think of any tolerable pretence for going in ; -- no servant that I want to inquire about of his housekeeper -- no message from my father . ''  and could not seriously picture to herself a more agreeable or estimable man .  How sure to be mistaken !  Charles wonders what Captain Wentworth will say ; but if you remember , I never thought him attached to Louisa ; I never could see anything of it .  `` But if you write a note to the housekeeper , Mr. Brandon , '' said Marianne , eagerly , `` will it not be sufficient ? ''  nonsense , mother ! ''  Elinor would not attempt to disturb a solitude so reasonable as what she now sought ; and with a mind anxiously pre-arranging its result , and a resolution of reviving the subject again , should Marianne fail to do it , she turned into the parlour to fulfill her parting injunction .  said she , as they proceeded -- speaking more to assist Mr. Weston in keeping his secret , than with any other view .  Anne felt an instant oppression , and wherever she looked saw symptoms of the same .  -- said he , letting it fall , and leaning against the mantel-piece as if forgetting he was to go .  Smart Mr Alligator , to take that old bulrush root for my paw !  It was a great satisfaction to us to hear it , I assure you . ''  After a moment 's pause , he spoke with calmness .  Anne could only feel that Charles Hayter was wise .  `` My idea of good company , Mr Elliot , is the company of clever , well-informed people , who have a great deal of conversation ; that is what I call good company . ''  He saw her concern , and coming to her , took her hand , pressed it , and kissed it with grateful respect .  You can slip in from the shrubbery at any time ; and there you will find we keep our umbrellas hanging up by that door .  Every circumstance belonging to him was interesting .  Wee folk , good folk , Trooping all together ; Green jacket , red cap , And white owl 's feather !  You should not have done it , indeed you should not .  Winthrop , however , or its environs -- for young men are , sometimes to be met with , strolling about near home -- was their destination ; and after another half mile of gradual ascent through large enclosures , where the ploughs at work , and the fresh made path spoke the farmer counteracting the sweets of poetical despondence , and meaning to have spring again , they gained the summit of the most considerable hill , which parted Uppercross and Winthrop , and soon commanded a full view of the latter , at the foot of the hill on the other side .  Mrs. Weston begs you to put on your tippet .  `` I believe it would be the wisest way to put an end to the business at once by dissolving the engagement .  He was a blessing to all the juvenile part of the neighbourhood , for in summer he was for ever forming parties to eat cold ham and chicken out of doors , and in winter his private balls were numerous enough for any young lady who was not suffering under the unsatiable appetite of fifteen .  Always the first person to be thought of !  Ay , so it always is , I believe .  `` Long a time , indeed ! ''  He could sing a little himself .  But I hope , Miss Woodhouse , that supposing -- that if -- strange as it may appear -- .  pray , Miss Margaret , let us know all about it , '' said Mrs. Jennings .  -- which my mother , being on the watch , heard distinctly , and was sadly alarmed at .  The late owner of this estate was a single man , who lived to a very advanced age , and who for many years of his life , had a constant companion and housekeeper in his sister .  cried Anne eagerly , `` I hope I do justice to all that is felt by you , and by those who resemble you .  He is just Lady Russell 's sort .  `` Upon my word , I am not acquainted with the minutiae of her principles .  `` He had been introduced to Sir Walter and your sister before I was acquainted with him , but I heard him speak of them for ever .  `` Margaret , '' said Marianne with great warmth , `` you know that all this is an invention of your own , and that there is no such person in existence . ''  `` I do not ask whether you are musical , Mrs. Elton .  As it was , it required but a slight effort of fancy to connect his emotion with the tender recollection of past regard .  `` To see you , '' cried he , `` in the midst of those who could not be my well-wishers ; to see your cousin close by you , conversing and smiling , and feel all the horrible eligibilities and proprieties of the match !  `` Oh , the difference of situation and habit !  She was on the point of sending again for Mr. Harris , or if HE could not come , for some other advice , when the former -- but not till after five o'clock -- arrived .  said the first .  It is not that I am without the wish ; but you know how impossible my father would deem it that James should put-to for such a purpose . ''  It helped very much , but it was so little that Louisa never felt as if she were doing anything .  To speak , she was sure would be to betray a most unreasonable degree of happiness .  here comes your beau , Nancy , ' my cousin said t'other day , when she saw him crossing the street to the house .  She had taken the chance , while everybody was listening to the waltz tunes , to fly away through the window to her own greenwood .  How is she to-day ?  [ At this point in the first and second edtions , Volume II ended . ]  I was therefore entered at Oxford and have been properly idle ever since . ''  `` Do you not think they are something in Miss Morton 's style of painting , Ma'am ? -- She DOES paint most delightfully ! -- How beautifully her last landscape is done ! ''  She was obliged to stop and think .  `` No !  Nothing should tempt _her_ to go , if they did ; and she regretted that her father 's known habits would be giving her refusal less meaning than she could wish .  At these words , Marianne 's eyes expressed the astonishment which her lips could not utter .  What a softener of the heart was this persuasion !  `` Who is that ? ''  Papa is only speaking his own regret . ''  In short , I do not mean to reflect upon the behaviour of any person whom you have a regard for , Mrs. Jennings .  He knew her illnesses ; they never occurred but for her own convenience .  A Miss Hawkins -- ''  Mrs. Jennings 's prophecies , though rather jumbled together , were chiefly fulfilled ; for she was able to visit Edward and his wife in their Parsonage by Michaelmas , and she found in Elinor and her husband , as she really believed , one of the happiest couples in the world .  And the little Red Man never knew what had become of it , because he did n't know where the little Field Mouse lived .  Again I demand an explanation of it .  Emma was extremely glad to see him -- but there was a degree of confusion -- a number of embarrassing recollections on each side .  These words , which conveyed to Elinor a direct avowal of his love for her sister , affected her very much .  `` Yes , yes -- but I am amused that he should have seen so far into my feelings .  He came to the door with his keys and called out , `` Who is there ? ''  Miss Woodhouse , do you think we shall ever find it out ? ''  Soon afterwards he began again ,  I should be very glad to get her so good a mistress .  My mother often talks of your good-nature .  But he knew that his three sons despised the farm work , and were eager to make wealth fast , through adventure .  People who have plenty of just plain common sense are often thought to be very wise .  Where lambs have nibbled , silent move The feet of angels bright ; Unseen they pour blessing , And joy without ceasing , On each bud and blossom , And each sleeping bosom .  I almost long to attempt her likeness myself .  Anne was ashamed .  Do look at it .  He wishes his boys to be active and hardy ; and if they misbehave , can give them a sharp word now and then ; but he is an affectionate father -- certainly Mr. John Knightley is an affectionate father .  After a while , there came a great sickness upon the city , and so many mothers and fathers died that there were more orphans than the asylum could possibly take care of .  Shall I mention to him your being in Bath ?  `` I have no doubt of it . ''  Mrs. Dixon has persuaded her father and mother to come over and see her directly .  He was on the move immediately ; but coming back , said ,  Anne is the only person that knows of it , and she has no judgment at all ; indeed , she does me a great deal more harm than good , for I am in constant fear of her betraying me .  From that moment she doubted not of their being engaged to each other ; and the belief of it created no other surprise than that she , or any of their friends , should be left by tempers so frank , to discover it by accident .  He had very good spirits , which never seemed much affected by his wife 's occasional lowness , bore with her unreasonableness sometimes to Anne 's admiration , and upon the whole , though there was very often a little disagreement ( in which she had sometimes more share than she wished , being appealed to by both parties ) , they might pass for a happy couple .  `` Poor Marianne ! ''  Oh !  I never saw such a likeness . ''  And in return for an acknowledgment , which must give me some pain , you can not deny me the privilege of disliking him as much as ever . ''  `` Indeed ! ''  mortifying and humiliating must be the origin of those regrets , which SHE could wish her not to indulge !  MARGARET OF NEW ORLEANS If you ever go to the beautiful city of New Orleans , somebody will be sure to take you down into the old business part of the city , where there are banks and shops and hotels , and show you a statue which stands in a little square there .  Had it been the effect of gratitude , had he learnt to love her , because he believed her to be preferring him , it would have been another thing .  Jane has heard a great deal of its beauty ; from Mr. Dixon , I mean -- I do not know that she ever heard about it from any body else ; but it was very natural , you know , that he should like to speak of his own place while he was paying his addresses -- and as Jane used to be very often walking out with them -- for Colonel and Mrs. Campbell were very particular about their daughter 's not walking out often with only Mr. Dixon , for which I do not at all blame them ; of course she heard every thing he might be telling Miss Campbell about his own home in Ireland ; and I think she wrote us word that he had shewn them some drawings of the place , views that he had taken himself .  Mr. Weston might be his son 's superior. -- In spite of this little rub , however , Emma was smiling with enjoyment , delighted to see the respectable length of the set as it was forming , and to feel that she had so many hours of unusual festivity before her. -- She was more disturbed by Mr. Knightley 's not dancing than by any thing else. -- There he was , among the standers-by , where he ought not to be ; he ought to be dancing , -- not classing himself with the husbands , and fathers , and whist-players , who were pretending to feel an interest in the dance till their rubbers were made up , -- so young as he looked ! -- He could not have appeared to greater advantage perhaps anywhere , than where he had placed himself .  Jane 's alertness in moving , proved her as ready as her aunt had preconceived .  `` It cert'nly does look so .  This is a great plan of yours , Blacky !  Anxious to separate herself from them as far as she could , she soon afterwards took possession of a narrow footpath , a little raised on one side of the lane , leaving them together in the main road .  Marianne was surprised and confused , yet she could not help smiling at the quiet archness of his manner , and after a moment 's silence , said ,  The sea is no beautifier , certainly ; sailors do grow old betimes ; I have observed it ; they soon lose the look of youth .  Father , by terrible ways that I knew , hidden from the others , I took her safe to the convent gate .  replied Elinor , `` why should you think so ?  His letters disgust me . ''  She felt all the honest pride and complacency which her alliance with the present and future proprietor could fairly warrant , as she viewed the respectable size and style of the building , its suitable , becoming , characteristic situation , low and sheltered -- its ample gardens stretching down to meadows washed by a stream , of which the Abbey , with all the old neglect of prospect , had scarcely a sight -- and its abundance of timber in rows and avenues , which neither fashion nor extravagance had rooted up. -- The house was larger than Hartfield , and totally unlike it , covering a good deal of ground , rambling and irregular , with many comfortable , and one or two handsome rooms. -- It was just what it ought to be , and it looked what it was -- and Emma felt an increasing respect for it , as the residence of a family of such true gentility , untainted in blood and understanding. -- Some faults of temper John Knightley had ; but Isabella had connected herself unexceptionably .  Reddy glared across the Smiling Pool at Peter .  But Harriet rejected the suspicion with spirit .  `Three things very dull indeed . '  She could soon sit upright on the sofa , and began to hope she might be able to leave it by dinner-time .  I had an acrostic once sent to me upon my own name , which I was not at all pleased with .  The independence she settled on Robert , through resentment against you , has put it in his power to make his own choice ; and she has actually been bribing one son with a thousand a-year , to do the very deed which she disinherited the other for intending to do .  And after that , the little Gingerbread Boy never said anything more at all .  Miss Bates stood in the very worst predicament in the world for having much of the public favour ; and she had no intellectual superiority to make atonement to herself , or frighten those who might hate her into outward respect .  Emma , who was not really at all frightened herself , tranquillised this excess of apprehension by assurances of Mrs. Goddard 's experience and care ; but as there must still remain a degree of uneasiness which she could not wish to reason away , which she would rather feed and assist than not , she added soon afterwards -- as if quite another subject ,  Willing therefore to delay the evil hour , she resolved to wait till her sister 's health were more secure , before she appointed it .  But perseverance in humility of conduct and messages , in self-condemnation for Robert 's offence , and gratitude for the unkindness she was treated with , procured her in time the haughty notice which overcame her by its graciousness , and led soon afterwards , by rapid degrees , to the highest state of affection and influence .  and it was but yesterday I was telling Mr. Cole , I really was ashamed to look at our new grand pianoforte in the drawing-room , while I do not know one note from another , and our little girls , who are but just beginning , perhaps may never make any thing of it ; and there is poor Jane Fairfax , who is mistress of music , has not any thing of the nature of an instrument , not even the pitifullest old spinet in the world , to amuse herself with. -- I was saying this to Mr. Cole but yesterday , and he quite agreed with me ; only he is so particularly fond of music that he could not help indulging himself in the purchase , hoping that some of our good neighbours might be so obliging occasionally to put it to a better use than we can ; and that really is the reason why the instrument was bought -- or else I am sure we ought to be ashamed of it. -- We are in great hopes that Miss Woodhouse may be prevailed with to try it this evening . ''  Their union , she believed , could not divide her more from other men , than their final separation .  `` Oh !  I acknowledge that her situation and her character ought to have been respected by me .  `` It is a beautiful country , '' he replied ; `` but these bottoms must be dirty in winter . ''  A Mrs Smith .  She would not even admit it to have been natural ; and Elinor left her to be convinced that it was so , by that which only could convince her , a better knowledge of mankind .  She caught it instantaneously ; and recovering her courage with the feeling of safety , soon added , more composedly , `` Are you acquainted with Mr Elliot ? ''  They are very fond of being at Hartfield , Harriet . ''  Anne , '' cried her sister , `` you can talk of nothing but beaux ; -- you will make Miss Dashwood believe you think of nothing else . ''  Later in the morning , and just as the girls were going to separate in preparation for the regular four o'clock dinner , the hero of this inimitable charade walked in again .  He could not have come nearer to her if he would ; she was so surrounded and shut in : but she would rather have caught his eye .  `` The book says there is a Nightingale , '' said the Emperor ; `` if the Nightingale is not here to sing for me this evening I will have the court trampled upon , immediately after supper . ''  Emma assured her there would be no difficulty in the answer , and advised its being written directly , which was agreed to , in the hope of her assistance ; and though Emma continued to protest against any assistance being wanted , it was in fact given in the formation of every sentence .  To attach myself to your sister , therefore , was not a thing to be thought of ; -- and with a meanness , selfishness , cruelty -- which no indignant , no contemptuous look , even of yours , Miss Dashwood , can ever reprobate too much -- I was acting in this manner , trying to engage her regard , without a thought of returning it. -- But one thing may be said for me : even in that horrid state of selfish vanity , I did not know the extent of the injury I meditated , because I did not THEN know what it was to love .  `` They come straight from town , as Miss Lucy -- Mrs. Ferrars told me . ''  The setting always casts a different shade on it , you know . ''  `` Emma , I must once more speak to you as I have been used to do : a privilege rather endured than allowed , perhaps , but I must still use it .  Until the small Rid Hin She got so dizzy , shure , Wid lookin ' at the Fox 's tail , She jist dropped on the floor .  cried Emma , putting her hand before her face , and jumping up , `` you make me more ashamed of myself than I can bear .  Marianne got up the next morning at her usual time ; to every inquiry replied that she was better , and tried to prove herself so , by engaging in her accustomary employments .  `` I should have been sorry , Mr. Knightley , to be dependent on _your_ recommendation , had I quitted Mr. Woodhouse 's family and wanted another situation ; I do not think you would have spoken a good word for me to any body .  Her house will therefore be almost completely fitted up as soon as she takes it . ''  My acquaintance with him has been but trifling. -- And even if I have not underrated him hitherto , he may yet turn out well. -- With such a woman he has a chance. -- I have no motive for wishing him ill -- and for her sake , whose happiness will be involved in his good character and conduct , I shall certainly wish him well . ''  `` I have , '' said the old Fox .  I could not bring it into play ; it was overwhelmed , buried , lost in those earlier feelings which I had been smarting under year after year .  They went to the sands , to watch the flowing of the tide , which a fine south-easterly breeze was bringing in with all the grandeur which so flat a shore admitted .  cried Emma , after a moment 's pause -- '' What do you mean ? -- Good Heaven !  I know why you inquire about him , very well ; your sister is to marry him .  Man 's boasted power and freedom , all are flown ; Lord of the earth and sea , he bends a slave , And woman , lovely woman , reigns alone .  She could never quit him . ''  Mr Elliot looking up with so much respect . ''  Sir Walter had at first thought more of London ; but Mr Shepherd felt that he could not be trusted in London , and had been skilful enough to dissuade him from it , and make Bath preferred .  No symptoms worse than before had appeared .  Surely there is no other tree that shines on so many happy faces !  He took that fat trout away from me and ate it just as if it belonged to him !  Thief , thief , thief ! ''  At the end of the day he had the workmen put a great stone on top of the work .  I am guilty , I confess , of having often wished you to treat our acquaintance in general with greater attention ; but when have I advised you to adopt their sentiments or to conform to their judgment in serious matters ? ''  Edward seemed a second Willoughby ; and acknowledging as Elinor did , that she HAD loved him most sincerely , could she feel less than herself !  Had I remained in England , perhaps -- but I meant to promote the happiness of both by removing from her for years , and for that purpose had procured my exchange .  It did not accord with the rationality of plan , the moderation in expense , or even the unselfish warmth of heart , which she had believed herself to discern in him yesterday .  `` I do not wonder , Miss Woodhouse , '' she resumed , `` that you should feel a great difference between the two , as to me or as to any body .  And I see very few pearls in the room except mine. -- So Frank Churchill is a capital dancer , I understand. -- We shall see if our styles suit. -- A fine young man certainly is Frank Churchill .  `Oh ! '  David rose early in the morning , and left the sheep with a keeper , and took the corn and the loaves and the cheeses , as his father had commanded him , and went to the camp of the Israelites .  It was too much ; Jove was angry at their stupidity at last .  `` Whoever Colonel Campbell might employ , '' said Frank Churchill , with a smile at Emma , `` the person has not chosen ill .  It had been serviceable in deadening the first shock , without retaining any influence to alarm .  `` Little Half-Chick , '' whispered the Water , `` I am so choked with these weeds that I can not move ; I am almost lost , for want of room ; please push the sticks and weeds away with your bill and help me . ''  `` Mr. Willoughby , you OUGHT to feel , and I certainly DO -- that after what has passed -- your coming here in this manner , and forcing yourself upon my notice , requires a very particular excuse. -- What is it , that you mean by it ? ''  But while I visit at Hartfield , and you are so kind to me , Miss Woodhouse , I am not afraid of what any body can do . ''  But that is just what the hair on Farmer Brown 's boy 's head did the day he went fishing in the Laughing Brook and had no luck at all .  It was now some years since Anne had begun to learn that she and her excellent friend could sometimes think differently ; and it did not surprise her , therefore , that Lady Russell should see nothing suspicious or inconsistent , nothing to require more motives than appeared , in Mr Elliot 's great desire of a reconciliation .  Ah !  `` Then you would have told me , that it might or might not have happened .  You see , there is n't much of anything that Farmer Brown 's boy is really afraid of .  It was all your doing , '' ( turning to Anne . )  I can easily believe that letters are very little to you , much less than to me , but it is not your being ten years older than myself which makes the difference , it is not age , but situation .  With a frightened little shriek Chatterer scampered to the top of the tree .  One evening in particular , about a week after Colonel Brandon left the country , his heart seemed more than usually open to every feeling of attachment to the objects around him ; and on Mrs. Dashwood 's happening to mention her design of improving the cottage in the spring , he warmly opposed every alteration of a place which affection had established as perfect with him .  It is of importance that no time should be lost with him , for he will of course have much to do relative to his ordination . ''  At first , they were capable of nothing more to the purpose than such exclamations ; but , after a while , Captain Wentworth , exerting himself , said --  `` Yes , '' replied Harriet modestly , but not fearfully -- '' I must say that I have . ''  Such expressions , assisted as they were by every thing that look and manner could do , made Emma feel that she had never loved Harriet so well , nor valued her affection so highly before .  But what shall I say ?  But he was so pleased to think of the supper he was going to have that he did not mind that at all .  These apprehensions , perhaps , were not founded entirely on reason , and certainly not at all on truth .  There , he had learnt to distinguish between the steadiness of principle and the obstinacy of self-will , between the darings of heedlessness and the resolution of a collected mind .  `` Harriet ! ''  `` Oh , '' said King Solomon , `` if that is the case , the Otter killed the Otter 's children .  One question after this only remained undecided , between them , one difficulty only was to be overcome .  `` Oh !  She will grow just refined enough to be uncomfortable with those among whom birth and circumstances have placed her home .  Though they had now been acquainted a month , she could not be satisfied that she really knew his character .  Good old Mrs. Bates -- I will call upon her to-morrow , and take my children. -- They are always so pleased to see my children. -- And that excellent Miss Bates ! -- such thorough worthy people ! -- How are they , sir ? ''  Elinor would not vouchsafe any answer .  She was wanting to see him again , and especially to see him in company with Mrs. Weston , upon his behaviour to whom her opinion of him was to depend .  Not a syllable passed aloud .  `` Oh yes , papa .  She was , moreover , perpetually hearing about him ; for , excepting when at Hartfield , she was always among those who saw no fault in Mr. Elton , and found nothing so interesting as the discussion of his concerns ; and every report , therefore , every guess -- all that had already occurred , all that might occur in the arrangement of his affairs , comprehending income , servants , and furniture , was continually in agitation around her .  Beyond it she would on no account proceed .  He lived high up on the mountainside in a tiny cave ; his food was roots and acorns , a bit of bread given by a peasant , or a cheese brought by a woman who wanted his prayers ; his work was praying , and thinking about God .  This was all overheard by Miss Dashwood ; and in the whole of the sentence , in his manner of pronouncing it , and in his addressing her sister by her Christian name alone , she instantly saw an intimacy so decided , a meaning so direct , as marked a perfect agreement between them .  Suddenly , from far off in the air toward the great salt lake , there was the sound of flapping wings .  I shall just go round by Mrs. Cole 's ; but I shall not stop three minutes : and , Jane , you had better go home directly -- I would not have you out in a shower ! -- We think she is the better for Highbury already .  And then , -- and then , -- Epaminondas _was_ careful how he stepped on those pies !  But I had no inclination for the law , even in this less abstruse study of it , which my family approved .  continued Lucy , after wiping her eyes , `` I think whether it would not be better for us both to break off the matter entirely . ''  Willoughby first rousing himself , broke it thus :  I wanted her to stay at home and rest this morning , but she would come with us ; she longed so much to see you all ! ''  `` It 's the Rain and the Sun , the Rain and the Sun , '' said two little voices , together , `` and we want to come in !  And then sitting down again , she very soon forgot that there were any such things in the room .  When Marianne was recovered , the schemes of amusement at home and abroad , which Sir John had been previously forming , were put into execution .  Knightley ? ''  Her astonishment and confusion were very great on his so sudden appearance .  `` Now , '' -- said Emma , when they were fairly beyond the sweep gates , -- `` now Mr. Weston , do let me know what has happened . ''  Spite and selfishness were at the bottom of it .  `` Oh !  He stood his chance for the rest ; wrote up for leave of absence , but without waiting the return , travelled night and day till he got to Portsmouth , rowed off to the Grappler that instant , and never left the poor fellow for a week .  There is no _real worth_ apart from rank and wealth .  Beyond you three , is there a creature in the world whom I would not rather suspect of evil than Willoughby , whose heart I know so well ? ''  `` Oh !  came a hoarse , angry voice from within .  I dare say she did not understand me . ''  He will connect himself well if he can . ''  You begged hard to be commanded to come . ''  `` Aye , _that_ may suit your humble ideas of yourself ; -- I know what a modest creature you are ; but it will not satisfy your friends to have you taking up with any thing that may offer , any inferior , commonplace situation , in a family not moving in a certain circle , or able to command the elegancies of life . ''  As a friend of mine , of my family , he may , perhaps -- indeed I know he HAS , still greater pleasure in bestowing it ; but , upon my word , you owe nothing to my solicitation . ''  Gratifying , however , and stimulative as was the letter in the material part , its sentiments , she yet found , when it was folded up and returned to Mrs. Weston , that it had not added any lasting warmth , that she could still do without the writer , and that he must learn to do without her .  When there , though looking most wretchedly , she ate more and was calmer than her sister had expected .  `` Poor little creatures ! ''  I could not leave it till Louisa 's doing well was quite ascertained .  He had just settled this point with great composure , when the entrance of Mrs. John Dashwood put an end to the subject .  `` Ah !  He did it now .  `` The last hours were certainly very painful , '' replied Anne ; `` but when pain is over , the remembrance of it often becomes a pleasure .  `` Run !  But I have no reason to suppose it so .  Mrs. Dashwood was surprised only for a moment at seeing him ; for his coming to Barton was , in her opinion , of all things the most natural .  The kind villagers left their work and ran to the field to help him .  `` I can never think of it without laughing. -- She hears us , she hears us , Miss Woodhouse .  Whether it was his own idea you know , one can not tell .  Half a minute brought it all out .  how snug they might live in such another cottage as yours -- or a little bigger -- with two maids , and two men ; and I believe I could help them to a housemaid , for my Betty has a sister out of place , that would fit them exactly . ''  He always speaks to the purpose ; open , straightforward , and very well judging .  The more he thought about those berries he felt sure were growing in the Old Pasture , the more he wanted some .  With an income quite sufficient to their wants thus secured to them , they had nothing to wait for after Edward was in possession of the living , but the readiness of the house , to which Colonel Brandon , with an eager desire for the accommodation of Elinor , was making considerable improvements ; and after waiting some time for their completion , after experiencing , as usual , a thousand disappointments and delays from the unaccountable dilatoriness of the workmen , Elinor , as usual , broke through the first positive resolution of not marrying till every thing was ready , and the ceremony took place in Barton church early in the autumn .  He thought her a most extraordinary young woman ; in her temper , manners , mind , a model of female excellence .  `` You do not go to town on horseback , do you ? ''  When one is in great pain , you know one can not feel any blessing quite as it may deserve .  In this walk Emma and Mr. Weston found all the others assembled ; and towards this view she immediately perceived Mr. Knightley and Harriet distinct from the rest , quietly leading the way .  And ever afterward she was his friend , helping him not only to happiness for himself , but also showing him how to help others , wherever he went .  Her mother had died too long ago for her to have more than an indistinct remembrance of her caresses ; and her place had been supplied by an excellent woman as governess , who had fallen little short of a mother in affection .  `` There are few among the gentlemen of the navy , I imagine , who would not be surprised to find themselves in a house of this description . ''  Lady Russell 's composed mind and polite manners were put to some trial on this point , in her intercourse in Camden Place .  She could not endure to give him the true explanation ; for though her suspicions were by no means removed , she was really ashamed of having ever imparted them .  Mrs. Weston was convinced that such conversation must be the greatest relief to her companion , pent up within her own mind as every thing had so long been , and was very much pleased with all that she had said on the subject .  His recollection of Harriet , and the words which clothed it , the `` beautiful little friend , '' suggested to her the idea of Harriet 's succeeding her in his affections .  on Tuesday night , he made a very awkward sort of excuse ; `he never shot ' and he had `been quite misunderstood , ' and he had promised this and he had promised that , and the end of it was , I found , that he did not mean to come .  `` No ; considering our situation , it was not strange .  One has not great hopes from Birmingham .  She was prepared to be wet through , fatigued , and frightened ; but the event was still more unfortunate , for they did not go at all .  It was a very awkward moment ; and the countenance of each shewed that it was so .  Marianne hardly knew what to say .  `` Whom do you mean , ma'am ? ''  `` That is precisely what I was going to observe , '' cried Mrs Croft .  But since he must be absent some time or other , I do not perceive how he can ever be secure while she holds her present influence .  Anne heard her , and made no violent exclamations ; she only smiled , blushed , and gently shook her head .  Only , dear Emperor , be sure that you never let anybody know that you have a little bird who tells you everything . ''  Here , -- probably this basket with pink ribbon .  He stopped. -- Emma dared not attempt any immediate reply .  They went back to dress and dine ; and so well had the scheme answered already , that nothing was found amiss ; though its being `` so entirely out of season , '' and the `` no thoroughfare of Lyme , '' and the `` no expectation of company , '' had brought many apologies from the heads of the inn .  `` There is my news : -- I thought it would interest you , '' said Mr. Knightley , with a smile which implied a conviction of some part of what had passed between them .  `` That 's easily said , and easily felt by you , who have always been your own master .  Had both the children been there , the affair might have been determined too easily by measuring them at once ; but as Harry only was present , it was all conjectural assertion on both sides ; and every body had a right to be equally positive in their opinion , and to repeat it over and over again as often as they liked .  The whole story would have been speedily formed under her active imagination ; and every thing established in the most melancholy order of disastrous love .  When she could command Mary 's attention , Anne quietly tried to convince her that their father and Mr Elliot had not , for many years , been on such terms as to make the power of attempting an introduction at all desirable .  She did not know that a helianthus was a sunflower until her mother told her so , and she had never seen the dear , blue , bell-shaped flowers that always grow in old-fashioned gardens , and are called Canterbury bells .  All the people of Rome felt it : it was as if the presence of an angel were there .  was not that her own doing too ?  It lies at the foot of the Big Mountain , and even extends a little way up on the Big Mountain .  `` It was my father 's last request to me , '' replied her husband , `` that I should assist his widow and daughters . ''  It is I , the king ! ''  But the sea-king was hard of heart , like Frode , and he roughly bade them go on grinding .  The vulgar freedom and folly of the eldest left her no recommendation , and as Elinor was not blinded by the beauty , or the shrewd look of the youngest , to her want of real elegance and artlessness , she left the house without any wish of knowing them better .  A _Mrs._ _Elton_ would be an excuse for any change of intercourse ; former intimacy might sink without remark .  `` Norland is a prodigious beautiful place , is not it ? ''  To Isabella , the relief of such tidings was very great , and they were scarcely less acceptable to Emma on her father 's account , who was immediately set as much at ease on the subject as his nervous constitution allowed ; but the alarm that had been raised could not be appeased so as to admit of any comfort for him while he continued at Randalls .  `` Do you think so ?  She hardly knew what to say .  She would not acknowledge that it was with any view of making a match for her , hereafter , with either of Isabella 's sons ; but she was convinced that a daughter would suit both father and mother best .  Sir Walter seemed to admit it as complete apology ; and though Elizabeth could not see the circumstance in quite so favourable a light , she allowed it be a great extenuation .  Suddenly Buster stopped and sniffed .  Marianne lifted up her eyes in astonishment , and Elinor conjectured that she might as well have held her tongue .  She was just in time to ascertain that it really was Mr Elliot , which she had never believed , before he disappeared on one side , as Mrs Clay walked quickly off on the other ; and checking the surprise which she could not but feel at such an appearance of friendly conference between two persons of totally opposite interest , she calmly said , `` Yes , it is Mr Elliot , certainly .  His companions suggested only what could palliate imprudence , or smooth objections ; and by the time they had talked it all over together , and he had talked it all over again with Emma , in their walk back to Hartfield , he was become perfectly reconciled , and not far from thinking it the very best thing that Frank could possibly have done .  I shall have many fellow-mourners for the ball , if not for Frank Churchill ; but Mr. Knightley will be happy .  `` Oh !  he remarked affably , waving one of his feelers in the direction of the Dewdrop .  But the Moon answered never a word , and Jack Rollaround could not see where to steer .  You are so much used to live alone , that you do not know the value of a companion ; and , perhaps no man can be a good judge of the comfort a woman feels in the society of one of her own sex , after being used to it all her life .  `` Drop thy pipe , thy happy pipe ; Sing thy songs of happy cheer : ! ''  said she ; 'my dear Ferrars , do tell me how it is to be managed .  `` Had they told me , '' he cried with vehemence , `` that Mr. Palmer and all his relations were at the devil , it would not have turned me from the door .  She roused herself and went to him .  Elinor could have given her immediate relief by suggesting the possibility of its being Miss Morton 's mother , rather than her own , whom they were about to behold ; but instead of doing that , she assured her , and with great sincerity , that she did pity her -- to the utter amazement of Lucy , who , though really uncomfortable herself , hoped at least to be an object of irrepressible envy to Elinor .  She thought it was time to make up .  `` Happy with a man of libertine practices ! -- With one who so injured the peace of the dearest of our friends , and the best of men ! -- No -- my Marianne has not a heart to be made happy with such a man ! -- Her conscience , her sensitive conscience , would have felt all that the conscience of her husband ought to have felt . ''  But I do not think it is at all a likely thing for him to do .  `` I want only that he shall be good .  I can not make her attend to the value of the property .  He had talked of going down to Plymouth for a week , and wanted to persuade Captain Benwick to go with him ; but , as Charles maintained to the last , Captain Benwick seemed much more disposed to ride over to Kellynch .  I see it and I love it .  `` If I know myself , Harriet , mine is an active , busy mind , with a great many independent resources ; and I do not perceive why I should be more in want of employment at forty or fifty than one-and-twenty .  `` Had you ? ''  That he was a sensible man , an agreeable man , that he talked well , professed good opinions , seemed to judge properly and as a man of principle , this was all clear enough .  `` Agreed , agreed .  Sweet smiles , in the night Hover over my delight !  Jane actually on the point of going as governess !  His gallantry was always on the alert .  She had rather play .  `` Even so .  She was in good humour with all .  And in an instant he had leaped on the horse , and headed him for the castle of fortune .  He kept very quiet and fished and fished , patiently waiting for a foolish trout to take his hook .  `` I dare say , '' returned Harriet , sighing again , `` I dare say she was very much attached to him . ''  The grounds of Hartfield were small , but neat and pretty ; and the house was modern and well-built .  Considering the very superior claims of the object , it ought ; and judging by its apparently stronger effect on Harriet 's mind , producing reserve and self-command , it would. -- She must communicate the painful truth , however , and as soon as possible .  The Dashwoods were so prodigiously delighted with the Middletons , that , though not much in the habit of giving anything , they determined to give them -- a dinner ; and soon after their acquaintance began , invited them to dine in Harley Street , where they had taken a very good house for three months .  She admired him for contriving it , though not able to give him much credit for the manner in which it was announced .  The younger boy , a remarkable stout , forward child , of two years old , having got the door opened for him by some one without , made his determined appearance among them , and went straight to the sofa to see what was going on , and put in his claim to anything good that might be giving away .  The last thing Margery thought of , as she went to sleep at night , was the dear , smooth little garden , with its funny footpath , and with the little sticks standing at the ends of the rows , labelled `` lettuce , '' `` beets , '' `` helianthus , '' and so on .  This was obliged to be repeated before it could be believed ; and Mr. Knightley actually looked red with surprize and displeasure , as he stood up , in tall indignation , and said ,  It was a sweet view -- sweet to the eye and the mind .  Just let me out a little minute , to get a little , little drink of water , Brother Brahmin ! ''  `` Oh !  The face he saw was thin and tired , and though it kept a smile or a grin for the people , it seemed very sad to the hermit .  `` This is a remarkably heavy cow , '' said the Elephant ; `` but I 'll fetch her ! ''  And when you get there , you must tell him at what time you would have him come for you again ; and you had better name an early hour .  A large bulky figure has as good a right to be in deep affliction , as the most graceful set of limbs in the world .  A sudden freak seemed to have seized him at breakfast , and he had sent for a chaise and set off , intending to return to dinner , but with no more important view that appeared than having his hair cut .  `` Know him !  She would certainly have risen to their blessings if she could , but she did not want to lessen theirs .  When she could give another glance , he had moved away .  But this was one of the points on which the lady shewed her strength ; and when he recommended the advantage of resting herself a quarter of an hour at Winthrop , as she felt so tired , she resolutely answered , `` Oh !  He could only obtain a promise of their calling at the Park within a day or two , and then left them in amazement at their indifference , to walk home and boast anew of their attractions to the Miss Steeles , as he had been already boasting of the Miss Steeles to them .  And very nice young ladies they both are ; I hardly know one from the other . ''  And at others , what a heap of absurdities it is !  Elsa 's husband had a hard time of it ; he had only poor food to eat , and it was not ready at the right time , and the house looked all in a muddle .  How she could have been so deceived ! -- He protested that he had never thought seriously of Harriet -- never !  `` Um-m-m , my , my , but these are good ! ''  But she does not do him justice , nor think enough about Winthrop .  Then , in rising day , On the grass they play ; Parents were afar , Strangers came not near , And the maiden soon forgot her fear .  Finally , he climbed up on a chair and opened a wee , wee door in the chimney-piece , -- and there it was !  That was a great deal too smart for me .  Emma did not repent her condescension in going to the Coles .  `` He had been so fortunate as to -- I forget the precise words -- one has no business to remember them .  Vague wishes of getting Sarah thither , had occurred before to Mrs Musgrove and Henrietta ; but without Anne , it would hardly have been resolved on , and found practicable so soon .  `` Stop , little Gingerbread Boy , '' said the cow ; `` I want to eat you . ''  I do not think any young woman has a right to make a choice that may be disagreeable and inconvenient to the principal part of her family , and be giving bad connections to those who have not been used to them .  `` I say , let 's wait and see for ourselves if it is all true . ''  But -- it was NOT Colonel Brandon -- neither his air -- nor his height .  She had not deserved it ; she had often been negligent or perverse , slighting his advice , or even wilfully opposing him , insensible of half his merits , and quarrelling with him because he would not acknowledge her false and insolent estimate of her own -- but still , from family attachment and habit , and thorough excellence of mind , he had loved her , and watched over her from a girl , with an endeavour to improve her , and an anxiety for her doing right , which no other creature had at all shared .  Captain Wentworth left his seat , and walked to the fire-place ; probably for the sake of walking away from it soon afterwards , and taking a station , with less bare-faced design , by Anne .  We are all very well pleased , however , for though it is not equal to her marrying Captain Wentworth , it is infinitely better than Charles Hayter ; and Mr Musgrove has written his consent , and Captain Benwick is expected to-day .  `` Ay , so do , Sir John , '' cried Mrs. Jennings , `` and then perhaps you may find out what his business is . ''  No , not if it were to be by the side of Barton covert , and they were kept watching for two hours together .  Known to have some influence with her sister , she was continually requested , or at least receiving hints to exert it , beyond what was practicable .  This is saying very plainly -- `Pray , Miss Smith , give me leave to pay my addresses to you .  But it will not do .  `` Friends , '' said he .  So goodby , my dear .  CHAPTER IX  One wonders how the names of many of our nobility become so common . ''  But Elinor -- how are HER feelings to be described ? -- From the moment of learning that Lucy was married to another , that Edward was free , to the moment of his justifying the hopes which had so instantly followed , she was every thing by turns but tranquil .  He did not disturb the wretchedness of her mind by ill-timed conversation .  To be sure Bobby Coon caught a few little fish there , but they did n't mind Bobby .  There are very few of the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows who do not know fear at some time or other , but it comes to Chatterer as seldom as to any one , because he is very sure of himself and his ability to hide or run away from danger .  I had not thought seriously on this subject before .  Her looks and words had nothing to restrain them .  But of his minuter propensities , as you call them you have from peculiar circumstances been kept more ignorant than myself .  The village of Barton was chiefly on one of these hills , and formed a pleasant view from the cottage windows .  It has been , and is , and probably will always be a heavy misfortune to me , that I have had no necessary business to engage me , no profession to give me employment , or afford me any thing like independence .  I wish -- I wish I had ten good fairies to work for me !  He ought not ; he does not . ''  Miss Fairfax , I dare say , would not have me if I were to ask her -- and I am very sure I shall never ask her . ''  `` Is not this most vexations , Knightley ? ''  Ninety-nine out of a hundred would do the same .  She would not be in a hurry to find fault , but she suspected that there was no elegance ; -- ease , but not elegance. -- She was almost sure that for a young woman , a stranger , a bride , there was too much ease .  Two of the pretty ladies were with them .  I do not perceive how you could express yourself more warmly . ''  A Boat without _water_ -- a Carriage , but no _horses_ -- a Well , but never a _winch_ : such is beauty without rank and wealth !  Glowing and lovely in sensibility and happiness , and more generally admired than she thought about or cared for , she had cheerful or forbearing feelings for every creature around her .  CHAPTER 29  You will know it all in time .  Comparisons would occur -- regrets would arise ; -- and her joy , though sincere as her love for her sister , was of a kind to give her neither spirits nor language .  He thought it very well done of Mr. Knightley to invite them -- very kind and sensible -- much cleverer than dining out. -- He was not fond of dining out . ''  I think there is a little likeness between us . ''  Little Henry was in her thoughts , and a mixture of alarm and delicacy made her irresolute what else to say .  `` Well , my dear , '' said Mrs. Jennings , `` and how did you travel ? ''  She was a woman rather of sound than of quick abilities , whose difficulties in coming to any decision in this instance were great , from the opposition of two leading principles .  She heard enough to know that Mr. Weston was giving some information about his son ; she heard the words `` my son , '' and `` Frank , '' and `` my son , '' repeated several times over ; and , from a few other half-syllables very much suspected that he was announcing an early visit from his son ; but before she could quiet Mr. Elton , the subject was so completely past that any reviving question from her would have been awkward .  `` What is that ? ''  There seems to me a very decided difference .  Invite him to dinner , Emma , and help him to the best of the fish and the chicken , but leave him to chuse his own wife .  I do not advise the custard .  Shall I call upon them ?  I wonder if I shall see any little bubbles to-day ? ''  CHAPTER 18  The intimacy had been formed before our marriage .  The truth of this representation there was no denying .  Could it be an impartial one ?  `` It 's worse than I thought , '' cried he .  By the bye , _that_ is almost enough to put one out of conceit with a niece .  `` He has not been here yet , '' replied Emma .  cried Mrs. Jennings .  I do not look upon myself as either prosperous or indulged .  `` Oh !  She was the last , excepting the little boys at the cottage , she was the very last , the only remaining one of all that had filled and animated both houses , of all that had given Uppercross its cheerful character .  `I am sure you must be , ' said he , `and I will send you another supply ; for I have a great many more than I can ever use .  `` I have the greatest pleasure , my dear Emma , in forwarding to you the enclosed .  He therefore replied , without any resentment ,  `` Well , '' said she , `` and you soon silenced Mr. Cole , I suppose ? ''  Everybody of any consequence or notoriety in Bath was well know by name to Mrs Smith .  I assure you I have .  He was often half starved , although so much petted .  She had bright dark eyes , good teeth , and altogether an agreeable face ; though her reddened and weather-beaten complexion , the consequence of her having been almost as much at sea as her husband , made her seem to have lived some years longer in the world than her real eight-and-thirty .  Even if your own feelings were reluctant or indifferent , to consider what powerful supports would be his !  that would be terrible , indeed , '' said Miss Steele -- `` Dear little soul , how I do love her ! ''  He was not asleep , but was watching very earnestly a blackberry-bush , that waved its one tall , dark-red spray in the wind outside the fence .  Emma 's eyes were instantly withdrawn ; and she sat silently meditating , in a fixed attitude , for a few minutes .  Her resolution of refusal only grew more interesting by the addition of a scheme for his subsequent consolation and happiness .  said Emma .  When he saw that , the Lion roared and shook his mane and showed his teeth .  June will soon be here . ''  It is such a pretty charade , my dear , that I can easily guess what fairy brought it. -- Nobody could have written so prettily , but you , Emma . ''  So Margery did not see any more done until the next day .  It was the choicest gift of Heaven ; and Anne viewed her friend as one of those instances in which , by a merciful appointment , it seems designed to counterbalance almost every other want .  Now I ai n't gwine tell you any more ways to bring truck home .  Stealing softly from the room he took paper and pen , for he had learnt to write , and spelt out , word after word , a letter which he addressed to the Christ Child .  Promising to be with them the whole of the following morning , therefore , she closed the fatigues of the present by a toilsome walk to Camden Place , there to spend the evening chiefly in listening to the busy arrangements of Elizabeth and Mrs Clay for the morrow 's party , the frequent enumeration of the persons invited , and the continually improving detail of all the embellishments which were to make it the most completely elegant of its kind in Bath , while harassing herself with the never-ending question , of whether Captain Wentworth would come or not ?  But Jane , it seems , had a letter from them very lately , and not a word was said about it .  But if you want to shew him any attention , my dear , ask him to come and dine with us some day .  Miss Fairfax 's recent illness had offered a fair plea for Mrs. Weston to invite her to an airing ; she had drawn back and declined at first , but , on being pressed had yielded ; and , in the course of their drive , Mrs. Weston had , by gentle encouragement , overcome so much of her embarrassment , as to bring her to converse on the important subject .  `` Ah !  But they were still more afraid of Farmer Brown 's boy , because they did n't know him or understand him , and because in the past he had tried to catch some of them in traps and had hunted some of them with his terrible gun .  THE BOOK of THEL  In the way of love , I am sure he does not .  `` How you can bear such recollections , is astonishing to me ! -- They _will_ sometimes obtrude -- but how you can court them ! ''  -- and as clearly heard Emma opposing it with eager laughing warmth .  He had passed out of the room without a look !  Anne , judging from her own temperament , would have deemed such a domestic hurricane a bad restorative of the nerves , which Louisa 's illness must have so greatly shaken .  Elinor , distressed by this charge of reserve in herself , which she was not at liberty to do away , knew not how , under such circumstances , to press for greater openness in Marianne .  Isabella does not seem more my sister ; has never excited a greater interest ; perhaps hardly so great .  You tell me that she has forgiven me already .  Pain is no expiation .  Willoughby . ''  `` You will think my question an odd one , I dare say , '' said Lucy to her one day , as they were walking together from the park to the cottage -- '' but pray , are you personally acquainted with your sister-in-law 's mother , Mrs .  Their means were as different as their objects , and equally suited to the advancement of each .  `` You ca n't catch me , I 'm the Gingerbread Man ! ''  `` I only mean that I suppose , from your manner of speaking , it must be the same to Miss Morton whether she marry Edward or Robert . ''  `` A very pleasant evening , '' he began , as soon as Mr. Woodhouse had been talked into what was necessary , told that he understood , and the papers swept away ; -- '' particularly pleasant .  He was shy , and disposed to abstraction ; but the engaging mildness of her countenance , and gentleness of her manners , soon had their effect ; and Anne was well repaid the first trouble of exertion .  `` Caw , caw caw ! ''  Certainly she had often , especially of late , thought his manners to herself unnecessarily gallant ; but it had passed as his way , as a mere error of judgment , of knowledge , of taste , as one proof among others that he had not always lived in the best society , that with all the gentleness of his address , true elegance was sometimes wanting ; but , till this very day , she had never , for an instant , suspected it to mean any thing but grateful respect to her as Harriet 's friend .  `` Do not boast of it , however , '' said Elinor , `` for it is injustice in both of you .  But he _had_ said hateful things , he _had_ chosen to sit in a tree which stood quite by itself , and Buster Bear _could_ climb !  Miss Marianne must not expect to have all the men to herself .  She would have liked to know how he felt as to a meeting .  Then he turned to Gottlieb with a smile , `` You see that although you wrote to the Christ Child , your prayer for aid came only to the Burgomaster .  `` I would not go away without seeing you , but I have no time to spare , and therefore must now be gone directly .  However , I do not mean to set up my opinion against your 's -- and I am sure I shall not wish for the acquaintance of his wife .  With mixed feelings , she seated herself at a little distance from the numbers round the instrument , to listen .  Her husband , but with great humility , did not see the force of her objection .  I should be surprized if , after seeing them , you could be in company with Mr. Martin again without perceiving him to be a very inferior creature -- and rather wondering at yourself for having ever thought him at all agreeable before .  But he could do nothing except bark , and bite at the heels of the wicked men .  `` You are extremely kind , '' said Jane ; `` but I can not give up my early walk .  Were he ever able to get away , the day would be spent in coming and returning .  She saw Mrs Clay fairly off , therefore , before she began to talk of spending the morning in Rivers Street .  The only person who could have dared to help her , thought the prince , was his old tutor , Suliman , the only man left who ever rebuked him for anything .  Up went his hind heels , and down went his head , and over it went the lazy man on to the stony ground .  `` Remember , my love , that you are not seventeen .  And I am sure Lucy would have done just the same by me ; for a year or two back , when Martha Sharpe and I had so many secrets together , she never made any bones of hiding in a closet , or behind a chimney-board , on purpose to hear what we said . ''  Escape , however , was not his plan .  I felt that I admired you , but I told myself it was only friendship ; and till I began to make comparisons between yourself and Lucy , I did not know how far I was got .  You must , indeed , you must . ''  `` Prejudiced !  She did not think he was quite so hardened as his wife , though growing very like her ; -- _she_ spoke some of her feelings , by observing audibly to her partner ,  At seven o'clock , leaving Marianne still sweetly asleep , she joined Mrs. Jennings in the drawing-room to tea .  Little Joe would n't tell , but Billy Mink told the whole story .  They saw nothing of Marianne till dinner time , when she entered the room and took her place at the table without saying a word .  Well , poor thing !  Tea was carrying round , and Mr. Weston , having said all that he wanted , soon took the opportunity of walking away .  I will not say quite all .  `` Emma never thinks of herself , if she can do good to others , '' rejoined Mr. Woodhouse , understanding but in part .  Her feelings made her speak low ; and Captain Wentworth , hearing only in part , and probably not having Dick Musgrove at all near his thoughts , looked rather in suspense , and as if waiting for more .  Perhaps he did n't know whose it was , and if he had he would n't have been afraid .  It came from town , and is merely a letter of business . ''  For just a little minute it was so still there in the Green Forest that not the least little sound could be heard .  Very soon , some of the officers told the king about the youth who was asking so many questions , and who said that it was shame upon Israel that a mere Philistine should defy the armies of the living God .  `` Nay , Sir Walter , '' cried Mrs Clay , `` this is being severe indeed .  The gulls devoured the crickets in dozens , in hundreds , in swarms .  But at last one of them said , with an air of great frankness , `` Indeed , Herr Grupello , the portrait of his Royal Highness is perfect ; but permit me to say that the statue of the horse is not quite so successful : the head is too large ; it is out of proportion . ''  Oh !  not I. I would as soon have been run up to the yard-arm .  They would be married , and settled either at or near Enscombe .  he replied , with an air of surprise. -- `` No , my mother is in town . ''  said Emma , as soon as she could speak .  `` Now , '' said Harriet , `` you _must_ recollect . ''  What shall we play at ?  `` At Longstaple ! ''  Never had she dreamed that she could be so big .  Poor little Emma !  Well might Charles wonder how Captain Wentworth would feel !  He was just on the point of putting his teeth into the cheese when the City Mouse saw him .  little Gingerbread Boy , my shoulder is sinking ; jump on my nose , and I can hold you out of water . ''  When the painted birds laugh in the shade , Where our table with cherries and nuts is spread : Come live , and be merry , and join with me , To sing the sweet chorus of `` Ha , ha , he ! ''  I am glad to find , however , from what you say , that he is a respectable young man , and one whose acquaintance will not be ineligible . ''  Mrs. Goddard had dressed it on a Sunday , and asked all the three teachers , Miss Nash , and Miss Prince , and Miss Richardson , to sup with her . ''  Will not this manner of speaking of him , Mrs Smith , convince you that he is nothing to me ?  They were more in love with him ; yet there it was not love .  When the threshers smelt the Gingerbread Boy , they tried to pick him up , and said , `` Do n't run so fast , little Gingerbread Boy ; you look very good to eat . ''  Look at her .  said the little Jackal .  Though I have forgot the exact terms , I have a perfect impression of the general meaning .  As to there being any quantity of snow fallen or likely to fall to impede their return , that was a mere joke ; he was afraid they would find no difficulty .  We see nothing of them , and this is really an instance of gross inattention .  Enscombe is in Yorkshire ? ''  Are those who have been disappointed in their first choice , whether from the inconstancy of its object , or the perverseness of circumstances , to be equally indifferent during the rest of their lives ? ''  I do not mean to complain , however ; it is undoubtedly a comfortable one , and I hope will in time be better .  David came to the place where the Israelites were , just as the host was going forth to the fight , shouting for the battle .  When the plough was made he put a hole in the beam of it , and got the lion to go in under the plough so that he might see if he was any good as a ploughman .  `` Where are thy father and mother ?  From situation , Mrs Clay was , in Lady Russell 's estimate , a very unequal , and in her character she believed a very dangerous companion ; and a removal that would leave Mrs Clay behind , and bring a choice of more suitable intimates within Miss Elliot 's reach , was therefore an object of first-rate importance .  He soon quitted Bath ; and on Mrs Clay 's quitting it soon afterwards , and being next heard of as established under his protection in London , it was evident how double a game he had been playing , and how determined he was to save himself from being cut out by one artful woman , at least .  cried Mary in an ecstasy , `` just as I said !  The Wind could not get it off .  A man must pay for his convenience ; and it HAS cost me a vast deal of money . ''  `` I suspect they do not satisfy Mrs. Weston .  `` I dare say you are , and I am sure I do not at all wonder at it .  His goodness of heart and simplicity of character were irresistible .  I know the summer will pass happily away .  Day by day the lettuce grew , and soon the little round leaves were easier to examine ; they certainly were very much like radish leaves .  Then everybody held their breath , even Blacky the Crow and Sammy Jay .  `` Depend upon it , Elton will not do .  It was growing late , and Miss Bates became anxious to get home , on her mother 's account .  Weston . ''  Have you forgot the last evening of our being together at Barton ?  Any other situation would have been much less in character .  `` And then their uncle comes in , and tosses them up to the ceiling in a very frightful way ! ''  Perry was surprized to hear you had fixed upon South End . ''  John , the second , is named after his father .  `` Had not she better be carried to the inn ?  `` No , ma'am , not even Lucy if you please .  Anne 's only surprise was , that affairs should be in forwardness enough for Henrietta 's wedding-clothes to be talked of .  I was to decide on the best of them .  `` I am afraid I am sometimes very fanciful and troublesome . ''  Have a little mercy on the poor men .  I never saw any thing so hard .  `` The joke , '' he replied gravely , `` seemed confined to you and Mr .  `` A very simple one -- to be of use to Mr .  Come , he knows himself there .  _She_ disapproved them , which ought to have been enough. -- My plea of concealing the truth she did not think sufficient. -- She was displeased ; I thought unreasonably so : I thought her , on a thousand occasions , unnecessarily scrupulous and cautious : I thought her even cold .  I think he is just the person to do it , even without being in love . ''  Where could you expect a more gentlemanlike , agreeable man ?  I hope I know better now , than to care for Mr. Martin , or to be suspected of it . ''  Knightley. -- They had determined that their marriage ought to be concluded while John and Isabella were still at Hartfield , to allow them the fortnight 's absence in a tour to the seaside , which was the plan. -- John and Isabella , and every other friend , were agreed in approving it .  `` Ay , true enough , '' ( with a deep sigh ) `` only June . ''  `` My dear Emma , '' said he , moving from his chair into one close by her , `` you are not going to tell me , I hope , that you had not a pleasant evening . ''  `` I mean that he has done it , '' answered Mr. Knightley , with smiling but determined decision , `` and been accepted . ''  And Jane declares -- Well ! -- ( as soon as she was within the door ) Well !  The lady is the Hon .  Four bed-rooms and two garrets formed the rest of the house .  She will be disagreeable in infancy , and correct herself as she grows older .  Sixteen miles -- nay , eighteen -- it must be full eighteen to Manchester-street -- was a serious obstacle .  I need some fresh fruit .  But the Martins occupied her thoughts a good deal ; she had spent two very happy months with them , and now loved to talk of the pleasures of her visit , and describe the many comforts and wonders of the place .  Had I known it , I would have had the pleasure of talking to him about you . ''  Chapter 1  She did not really like her .  `` Yes , dear ma'am , '' said Mrs Croft , `` or an uncertain engagement , an engagement which may be long .  There was much to regret .  I am really tired of exploring so long on one spot .  `` I 've lost my berries , but it is worth it to find out that he is afraid of me .  Emma made no answer , and tried to look cheerfully unconcerned , but was really feeling uncomfortable and wanting him very much to be gone .  We will follow them to Hartfield .  And this , I fear , is all that can be said for the conduct of one , who was at once her uncle and guardian .  It is remarkable , that Emma , in the many , very many , points of view in which she was now beginning to consider Donwell Abbey , was never struck with any sense of injury to her nephew Henry , whose rights as heir-expectant had formerly been so tenaciously regarded .  She might have been unconsciously sucking in the sad poison , while a sharer of his conversation with her friend ; and from the best , the purest of motives , might now be denying herself this visit to Ireland , and resolving to divide herself effectually from him and his connexions by soon beginning her career of laborious duty .  When they had all talked a little while in harmony of the weather and Mrs. Weston , she found herself abruptly addressed with ,  Twice was his card found on the table , when they returned from their morning 's engagements .  Indeed I do you justice , my good friend .  `` Writing to each other , '' said Lucy , returning the letter into her pocket , `` is the only comfort we have in such long separations .  `` I have very often wished to undeceive yourself and my mother , '' added Elinor ; `` and once or twice I have attempted it ; -- but without betraying my trust , I never could have convinced you . ''  With regard to her not accompanying them to Ireland , her account to her aunt contained nothing but truth , though there might be some truths not told .  `` Such an extraordinary dream of mine ! ''  then indeed I am glad , and would say , if I could , `` Yes , take them , dear little boy ; I kept them for you , held them long up to the sun and rain to make them sweet and ripe for you '' ; and I nod and nod in full content , for my work is done .  `` Yes -- rather -- I have been thinking of it some little time . ''  You must come , indeed .  Miss Woodhouse , do talk to me and make me comfortable again . ''  ***  There were not merely no grammatical errors , but as a composition it would not have disgraced a gentleman ; the language , though plain , was strong and unaffected , and the sentiments it conveyed very much to the credit of the writer .  Charles and Mary also came in , of course , during their visit , and Mr Musgrove made a point of paying his respects to Lady Russell , and sat down close to her for ten minutes , talking with a very raised voice , but from the clamour of the children on his knees , generally in vain .  What a blessing to young people to be in such hands !  There lay a pair of shoes , beautifully made , and the leather was gone !  It was overpowering happiness .  `` So many clever riddles as there used to be when he was young -- he wondered he could not remember them !  Did he who made the lamb make thee ?  She said , `` Men of earth , I will help you , come what may ! ''  Miss Churchill , however , being of age , and with the full command of her fortune -- though her fortune bore no proportion to the family-estate -- was not to be dissuaded from the marriage , and it took place , to the infinite mortification of Mr. and Mrs. Churchill , who threw her off with due decorum .  He had never heard of such books before I mentioned them , but he is determined to get them now as soon as ever he can . ''  I am very sure myself , that had Willoughby turned out as really amiable , as he has proved himself the contrary , Marianne would yet never have been so happy with HIM , as she will be with Colonel Brandon . ''  Lady Middleton expressed her sense of the affair about once every day , or twice , if the subject occurred very often , by saying , `` It is very shocking , indeed ! ''  he shouted .  Presently a window opened , and Cherry saw Zelia lean out and throw down a piece of meat .  `` It was at Gibraltar , mother , I know .  But , as it was , she only learned , from some very significant looks , how far their penetration , founded on Margaret 's instructions , extended .  I 'll lay my life that he meant nothing farther ; indeed , it would be very strange and unreasonable if he did .  `` Nothing can be actually settled yet , perhaps , '' replied Emma , smiling -- '' but , excuse me , it must be thought of . ''  While we were together , you know , there was nothing to be feared .  I do not recommend matrimony at present to Emma , though I mean no slight to the state , I assure you . ''  I never saw quite so wretched an example of what a sea-faring life can do ; but to a degree , I know it is the same with them all : they are all knocked about , and exposed to every climate , and every weather , till they are not fit to be seen .  She felt a great deal of good-will towards him .  But at length she was secured by the exertions of Elinor , who greatly disapproved such continual seclusion .  `` Will you read the letter ? ''  I should be very sorry that such a friendship as has subsisted between him and Captain Benwick should be destroyed , or even wounded , by a circumstance of this sort . ''  Emma had not been thinking of him , she had forgotten to think of him -- but she was very glad to see him .  In the very same inn with us !  as to being Anne 's acquaintance , '' said Mary , `` I think he is rather my acquaintance , for I have been seeing him every day this last fortnight . ''  His spirits , during the last two or three days , though still very unequal , were greatly improved -- he grew more and more partial to the house and environs -- never spoke of going away without a sigh -- declared his time to be wholly disengaged -- even doubted to what place he should go when he left them -- but still , go he must .  At this moment Frank began talking so vigorously , that Emma could not but imagine he had overheard his own praises , and did not want to hear more ; -- and the voices of the ladies were drowned for a while , till another suspension brought Mrs. Elton 's tones again distinctly forward. -- Mr .  I was once very near -- and I wish I had -- it would have been better .  Her father 's business was to announce James 's being gone out to put the horses to , preparatory to their now daily drive to Randalls ; and she had , therefore , an immediate excuse for disappearing .  At last , one day , Elsa 's husband went away quite cross ; he said to her , as he went out of the door , `` It is no wonder that the house looks so , when you sit all day with your hands in your lap ! ''  For their brother 's sake , too , for the sake of his own heart , she rejoiced ; and she reproached herself for being unjust to his merit before , in believing him incapable of generosity .  my dear Miss Dashwood !  This was an opportunity which Anne could not resist ; she said , therefore , `` I hope , Admiral , I hope there is nothing in the style of Captain Wentworth 's letter to make you and Mrs Croft particularly uneasy .  `` It is truly astonishing ! ''  So he did n't move so much as an eye lash .  It had then seemed the object nearest her heart , that Dr Shirley , the rector , who for more than forty years had been zealously discharging all the duties of his office , but was now growing too infirm for many of them , should be quite fixed on engaging a curate ; should make his curacy quite as good as he could afford , and should give Charles Hayter the promise of it .  In the winter the white snow fell softly , softly , and covered the great trees all over with wonderful caps and coats of white .  Caw , caw , caw ! ''  Do not put it into his head .  She was quite easy on that head , and consequently full of strength and courage , till for a moment electrified by Mrs Croft 's suddenly saying , --  Mr Elliot was not disappointed in the interest he hoped to raise .  I was sitting near the door -- Elizabeth saw me directly ; but he did not ; he was busy with the umbrella .  Sir Walter , however , would choose his own means , and at last wrote a very fine letter of ample explanation , regret , and entreaty , to his right honourable cousin .  You can not really , seriously , doubt it .  The two ladies looked over it together ; and he sat smiling and talking to them the whole time , in a voice a little subdued , but very audible to every body .  On his head a crown , On his shoulders down Flowed his golden hair .  `` I am , '' -- she answered -- '' I am fatigued ; but it is not the sort of fatigue -- quick walking will refresh me. -- Miss Woodhouse , we all know at times what it is to be wearied in spirits .  Such an immense plantation all round it !  There she sat -- and who would have guessed how many tears she had been lately shedding ?  The spring I always think requires more than common care .  `` Look here , '' said he , unfolding a parcel in his hand , and displaying a small miniature painting , `` do you know who that is ? ''  I should like it of all things , '' was not plainer in words than manner .  And yet some of the plate would have been a very pleasant addition to our own stock here . ''  He knows where a surgeon is to be found . ''  But Mr. Knightley is so very fine a man ! ''  She had no doubt of Harriet 's happiness with any good-tempered man ; but with him , and in the home he offered , there would be the hope of more , of security , stability , and improvement .  Mr. Knightley , what a delightful party last night ; how extremely pleasant. -- Did you ever see such dancing ? -- Was not it delightful ? -- Miss Woodhouse and Mr. Frank Churchill ; I never saw any thing equal to it . ''  Why they are your cousins , you know , after a fashion .  From that period his penance had become severe .  The expectation of seeing HER , however , was enough to make her interested in the engagement ; for though she could now meet Edward 's mother without that strong anxiety which had once promised to attend such an introduction , though she could now see her with perfect indifference as to her opinion of herself , her desire of being in company with Mrs. Ferrars , her curiosity to know what she was like , was as lively as ever .  Mrs. Weston was acting no part , feigning no feelings in all that she said to him in favour of the event. -- She had been extremely surprized , never more so , than when Emma first opened the affair to her ; but she saw in it only increase of happiness to all , and had no scruple in urging him to the utmost. -- She had such a regard for Mr. Knightley , as to think he deserved even her dearest Emma ; and it was in every respect so proper , suitable , and unexceptionable a connexion , and in one respect , one point of the highest importance , so peculiarly eligible , so singularly fortunate , that now it seemed as if Emma could not safely have attached herself to any other creature , and that she had herself been the stupidest of beings in not having thought of it , and wished it long ago. -- How very few of those men in a rank of life to address Emma would have renounced their own home for Hartfield !  `` Dirty , sir !  So far went his understanding ; and his vanity supplied a little additional soothing , in the Admiral 's situation in life , which was just high enough , and not too high .  `` Certainly , '' said Elinor ; `` he seems very agreeable . ''  Two days passed away from the time of Mr. Palmer 's departure , and her situation continued , with little variation , the same .  Everything was safe enough , and she smiled over the many anxious feelings she had wasted on the subject .  Emma would be `` very happy to wait on Mrs. Bates , & c. , '' and they did at last move out of the shop , with no farther delay from Miss Bates than ,  So he went on to the next little pool .  I would assist any brother officer 's wife that I could , and I would bring anything of Harville 's from the world 's end , if he wanted it .  -- said Emma , still perplexed .  `` Will Mr. Frank Churchill pass through Bath as well as Oxford ? ''  `` Should I send it to Mrs. Goddard 's , ma'am ? ''  Anne is too delicate for them . ''  Mr. Knightley , why do not you stay at home like poor Mr .  She would be very glad to stay . ''  Knightley ! -- Mr .  You are his object -- and you will soon receive the completest proof of it .  I thought I should have fainted .  `` I merely asked , whether you had known much of Miss Fairfax and her party at Weymouth . ''  `` Did you go then ?  Not regret her leaving Highbury for the sake of marrying a man whom I could never admit as an acquaintance of my own !  If it be not inconvenient to you , pray let us go in , that I may prove myself to belong to the place , to be a true citizen of Highbury .  `` The first news that reached me of her , '' he continued , `` came in a letter from herself , last October .  But it is his gratitude on Harriet 's account . ''  My right to place myself in a situation requiring such concealment , is another question .  Lucy looked at Elinor again , and was silent .  Twelve years were gone since they had parted , and each presented a somewhat different person from what the other had imagined .  I should not like a man who is so soon discomposed by a hot morning .  The room was full of shadows , and the shadows were full of faces .  But I only go for the sake of seeing Edward .  Frank turned instantly to Emma , to claim her former promise ; and boasted himself an engaged man , which his father looked his most perfect approbation of -- and it then appeared that Mrs. Weston was wanting _him_ to dance with Mrs. Elton himself , and that their business was to help to persuade him into it , which was done pretty soon. -- Mr. Weston and Mrs. Elton led the way , Mr. Frank Churchill and Miss Woodhouse followed .  Weston ? -- To Bath , or to Clifton ? ''  -- That thousands of sweepers , Dick , Joe , Ned , and Jack , Were all of them locked up in coffins of black .  He saw that Emma had soon made it out , and found it highly entertaining , though it was something which she judged it proper to appear to censure ; for she said , `` Nonsense !  Buster Bear had n't actually taken the fish away from Little Joe .  Mr. Churchill , oh !  That is the fact , upon my honour , Mary knows it is . ''  Charles , my dear , '' ( beckoning him to her ) , `` do ask Captain Wentworth where it was he first met with your poor brother .  the idea ! ''  It was spoken with enthusiasm .  `` But who is he ? ''  Epaminondas , what you got there ? ''  It would have surprised Anne if Louisa could have readily answered such a speech : words of such interest , spoken with such serious warmth !  A disagreeable truth would be palatable through her lips , but I am the wretchedest being in the world at a civil falsehood . ''  `` Very nicely dressed , indeed ; a remarkably elegant gown . ''  That is what Farmer Brown 's boy did when he met Buster Bear , and a lot of the little people of the Green Forest and some from the Green Meadows saw him .  Every thing tender and charming was to mark their parting ; but still they were to part .  No donkey was to be found .  Then he too started for the Old Pasture .  `` She is not well , she has had a nervous complaint on her for several weeks . ''  Elinor was soon called to the card-table by the conclusion of the first rubber , and the confidential discourse of the two ladies was therefore at an end , to which both of them submitted without any reluctance , for nothing had been said on either side to make them dislike each other less than they had done before ; and Elinor sat down to the card table with the melancholy persuasion that Edward was not only without affection for the person who was to be his wife ; but that he had not even the chance of being tolerably happy in marriage , which sincere affection on HER side would have given , for self-interest alone could induce a woman to keep a man to an engagement , of which she seemed so thoroughly aware that he was weary .  How can the bird that is born for joy Sit in a cage and sing ?  To satisfy me , those characters must be united .  This only need be said ; -- that when they all sat down to table at four o'clock , about three hours after his arrival , he had secured his lady , engaged her mother 's consent , and was not only in the rapturous profession of the lover , but , in the reality of reason and truth , one of the happiest of men .  A short pause of mutual thoughtfulness succeeded .  Putting in the seed was not so easy to do as to watch ; sometimes Margery dropped in too much , and sometimes not enough ; but her father was patient with her , and soon she did better .  Emma laughed , and replied : `` But I had the assistance of all your endeavours to counteract the indulgence of other people .  `` Oh , do n't leave me behind ! ''  `` Very well ; I will not plague you any more .  CHAPTER VII  Recollecting himself , however , he added , `` That is , I mean to say -- your friends are all truly anxious to see you well settled ; Fanny particularly , for she has your interest very much at heart , I assure you .  Colonel Brandon loves Marianne .  She was quite determined not to utter a word that should hurt Jane Fairfax 's feelings ; and they followed the other ladies out of the room , arm in arm , with an appearance of good-will highly becoming to the beauty and grace of each .  `` Well -- if you please , '' said Mrs. Weston rather hesitating , `` if you think she will be of any use . ''  `` Why , pretty well , my dear , upon the whole .  When once it had been read , there was no doing any thing , but lament and exclaim .  His civilities to the other ladies must be paid ; but his subsequent object was to lament over himself for the heat he was suffering , and the walk he had had for nothing .  `` Perhaps , then , you would bestow it as a reward on that person who wrote the ablest defence of your favourite maxim , that no one can ever be in love more than once in their life -- your opinion on that point is unchanged , I presume ? ''  She was the instigator .  Chapter 9  `` You did then , '' said Elinor , a little softened , `` believe yourself at one time attached to her ? ''  It would be a great pleasure to know Robert Martin .  With a confidence in Mr Elliot 's regard , more creditable to his feelings than his judgement , Mr Smith had appointed him the executor of his will ; but Mr Elliot would not act , and the difficulties and distress which this refusal had heaped on her , in addition to the inevitable sufferings of her situation , had been such as could not be related without anguish of spirit , or listened to without corresponding indignation .  And Mrs .  He heard her with the most earnest attention , but seeming to recollect himself , said no more on the subject , and began directly to speak of his pleasure at seeing them in London , making the usual inquiries about their journey , and the friends they had left behind .  His circumstances are now unembarrassed -- he suffers from no evil of that kind ; and he thinks only that he has married a woman of a less amiable temper than yourself .  `` Oh , la !  He ran out of the garden like the wind .  Mrs. Dashwood and Elinor then followed , and the others were left by themselves , to talk of the travellers , and feel their own dullness , till Mrs. Jennings was summoned to her chaise to take comfort in the gossip of her maid for the loss of her two young companions ; and Colonel Brandon immediately afterwards took his solitary way to Delaford .  Dancing with open windows ! -- I am sure , neither your father nor Mrs. Weston ( poor Miss Taylor that was ) would suffer it . ''  `` Aye -- like Maple Grove , I dare say .  Mrs. Weston , with her baby on her knee , indulging in such reflections as these , was one of the happiest women in the world .  Wondering , Elsa stretched out her pretty , little , white hands .  `` Run ! ''  he gently asked .  Mrs. Weston kissed her with tears of joy ; and when she could find utterance , assured her , that this protestation had done her more good than any thing else in the world could do .  Mrs. Jennings was so far from being weary of her guest , that she pressed them very earnestly to return with her again from Cleveland .  He saw no sign of the old Alligator .  Nobody can be more devoted to home than I am .  `` No , '' cried Anne , quickly , `` it can not be Mr Elliot , I assure you .  Do you mean with regard to this letter ? ''  I like a job of that sort excessively . '  She is not to pay for the offence of others , by being held below the level of those with whom she is brought up. -- There can scarcely be a doubt that her father is a gentleman -- and a gentleman of fortune. -- Her allowance is very liberal ; nothing has ever been grudged for her improvement or comfort. -- That she is a gentleman 's daughter , is indubitable to me ; that she associates with gentlemen 's daughters , no one , I apprehend , will deny. -- She is superior to Mr. Robert Martin . ''  asked Sammy Jay eagerly .  `` Because I was happy upon the heath , And smiled among the winter 's snow , They clothed me in the clothes of death , And taught me to sing the notes of woe .  `` Why do n't the people come to see me ? ''  I am as confident of seeing Frank here before the middle of January , as I am of being here myself : but your good friend there ( nodding towards the upper end of the table ) has so few vagaries herself , and has been so little used to them at Hartfield , that she can not calculate on their effects , as I have been long in the practice of doing . ''  His face lengthened immediately ; and his voice was the voice of sentiment as he answered .  Their acquaintance was exceedingly sought after .  Is Perry going to set up his carriage , Frank ?  I am sure you hear nothing but good of him from Colonel Wallis ; and who can know him better than Colonel Wallis ? ''  This could not be pardoned .  said Captain Harville .  `` I do not believe , '' said Mrs. Dashwood , with a good humoured smile , `` that Mr. Willoughby will be incommoded by the attempts of either of MY daughters towards what you call CATCHING him .  WHO KILLED THE OTTER 'S BABIES ?  XVIII SOMEBODY ELSE GOES BERRYING Is n't it funny how two people will often think of the same thing at the same time , and neither one know that the other is thinking of it ?  To live no longer with the decencies even of a private gentleman !  He was so surprised and angry that he went off by himself and sulked .  The man harnessed the horses to it , and then he stood on the platform and drove all over the strip of land .  `` I am the Fairy Candide , '' she said to the prince .  We were principally in town , living in very good style .  This made a difficulty .  She recalled her past kindness -- the kindness , the affection of sixteen years -- how she had taught and how she had played with her from five years old -- how she had devoted all her powers to attach and amuse her in health -- and how nursed her through the various illnesses of childhood .  CHAPTER 35  Forty ? ''  Was it not enough to make the fool of me which I appeared ?  `` I am glad you approve of what I have done , '' said he very comfortably .  `My dear , ' said I , `you will blind yourself ' -- for tears were in her eyes perpetually .  In them he should find two souls like his own , in God 's sight .  what can be the meaning of it !  Did you ever see the like ?  `` There is no saying much for the delicacy of our good friends , the Eltons , '' was his next observation. -- '' His feelings are natural. -- What !  and by the means of this continual though gentle vent , was able not only to see the Miss Dashwoods from the first without the smallest emotion , but very soon to see them without recollecting a word of the matter ; and having thus supported the dignity of her own sex , and spoken her decided censure of what was wrong in the other , she thought herself at liberty to attend to the interest of her own assemblies , and therefore determined ( though rather against the opinion of Sir John ) that as Mrs. Willoughby would at once be a woman of elegance and fortune , to leave her card with her as soon as she married .  `` What ! ''  I think , Emma , I shall try and persuade her to stay longer with us .  I had been unguarded .  You ca n't think how much I go through in my mind from it altogether .  `` Did you think you could plant them in the morning ? ''  She paused -- no one spoke .  To consult with Colonel Brandon on the best means of effecting the latter , was a thought which immediately followed the resolution of its performance ; and as soon she had rung up the maid to take her place by her sister , she hastened down to the drawing-room , where she knew he was generally to be found at a much later hour than the present .  She could not endure that such a friendship as theirs should be severed unfairly .  It moved very swiftly and silently , as if in a great hurry .  He has too much real feeling to address any woman on the haphazard of selfish passion .  They thought the old men would die and the young men be so ill and weary that they could not bring up families , and so the race would dwindle away .  Their affection was always to subside into friendship .  See the consequence of keeping you company ! -- What do you say to it ? ''  You persuaded her to refuse him . ''  Pretty soon Ol ' Mistah Buzzard came dropping down out of the blue , blue sky and took a seat on a convenient dead tree , where he could see all that went on .  `` Did he indeed ? ''  `` Not so , indeed ; for , seriously speaking , I am very sure that conscience only kept Edward from Harley Street .  The Westons will be with us , and it will be quite delightful .  How Charles could take such a thing into his head was always incomprehensible to me .  When you hear that , pull ; pull as hard as you can , for my cow is very heavy . ''  Such a very kind attention -- and so thoughtful an attention ! -- the sort of thing that so few men would think of .  Though Charles and Mary had remained at Lyme much longer after Mr and Mrs Musgrove 's going than Anne conceived they could have been at all wanted , they were yet the first of the family to be at home again ; and as soon as possible after their return to Uppercross they drove over to the Lodge .  `` Nay , Elinor , this reproach from YOU -- you who have confidence in no one ! ''  `` I can guess what his business is , however , '' said Mrs. Jennings exultingly .  My idea of the simple and the natural will be to have the table spread in the dining-room .  Though her nephew had had no particular reason to hasten back on her account , she had not lived above six-and-thirty hours after his return .  Farmer Brown 's boy has a lot of curiosity , and he will be sure to come over to see what it is all about .  Will you chuse a wife for me ? -- I am sure I should like any body fixed on by you .  Have you no comforts ?  Mr. Woodhouse could not be soon reconciled ; but the worst was overcome , the idea was given ; time and continual repetition must do the rest. -- To Emma 's entreaties and assurances succeeded Mr. Knightley 's , whose fond praise of her gave the subject even a kind of welcome ; and he was soon used to be talked to by each , on every fair occasion. -- They had all the assistance which Isabella could give , by letters of the strongest approbation ; and Mrs. Weston was ready , on the first meeting , to consider the subject in the most serviceable light -- first , as a settled , and , secondly , as a good one -- well aware of the nearly equal importance of the two recommendations to Mr. Woodhouse 's mind. -- It was agreed upon , as what was to be ; and every body by whom he was used to be guided assuring him that it would be for his happiness ; and having some feelings himself which almost admitted it , he began to think that some time or other -- in another year or two , perhaps -- it might not be so very bad if the marriage did take place .  I am sorry I did not know it before ; for I certainly would not have suffered you to give me particulars of a conversation which you ought not to have known yourself .  Perfectly remember Mrs. Perry 's coming. -- Extraordinary dream , indeed ! ''  `` Alas ! ''  Elinor is well , you see .  But very soon her husband died , and then the baby died , too , and Margaret was all alone in the world .  Be sure to give me intelligence of the letter as soon as possible . ''  `` The clerks grow expert from habit. -- They must begin with some quickness of sight and hand , and exercise improves them .  Now , you know , a Camel is very big , and a Jackal is very little .  `` Poor creatures !  -- And he repeated her words with such assurance of accent , such boastful pretence of amazement , that she could not help replying with quickness ,  `` Oh no !  He thought much of the evils of the journey for her , and not a little of the fatigues of his own horses and coachman who were to bring some of the party the last half of the way ; but his alarms were needless ; the sixteen miles being happily accomplished , and Mr. and Mrs. John Knightley , their five children , and a competent number of nursery-maids , all reaching Hartfield in safety .  I have read worse charades .  Emma scarcely heard what was said. -- Her mind was divided between two ideas -- her own former conversations with him about Miss Fairfax ; and poor Harriet ; -- and for some time she could only exclaim , and require confirmation , repeated confirmation .  She perceived him soon afterwards looking at herself , and speaking familiarly to her brother ; and had just determined to find out his name from the latter , when they both came towards her , and Mr. Dashwood introduced him to her as Mr. Robert Ferrars .  When they had all finished , he turned to the prince and said , `` Your courtiers , prince , find a good many flaws in the statue of the horse ; will you permit me to keep it a few days more , to do what I can with it ? ''  `` Indeed , '' answered Elinor , `` I have NOT forgotten it . ''  he cried .  An airing in the Hartfield carriage would have been the rack , and arrowroot from the Hartfield storeroom must have been poison .  `` That you do not give another half-second to the subject .  `` Upon my word , '' exclaimed Emma , `` you amuse me !  How angry and how diverted he would be !  `` What did Mr. Weston tell you ? ''  Then she looked again .  Emma knew this was too true for contradiction , and therefore said nothing .  `` You can not do better , sir . ''  You will excuse her not coming to you -- she is not able -- she is gone into her own room -- I want her to lie down upon the bed .  `` Mr. Elton is a very pretty young man , to be sure , and a very good young man , and I have a great regard for him .  With my head and heart full of your sister , I was forced to play the happy lover to another woman ! -- Those three or four weeks were worse than all .  `` Dear me ! ''  And it was soon over .  Emma restrained her indignation , and only turned from her in silence .  The idea of Louisa Musgrove turned into a person of literary taste , and sentimental reflection was amusing , but she had no doubt of its being so .  a man does not imagine any such thing .  `` Oh , dear , that is a great pity !  Elinor for a few moments remained silent .  `` What can you have to do in town at this time of year ? ''  If she would only wear rouge she would not be afraid of being seen ; but last time I called , I observed the blinds were let down immediately . ''  But after about a week he got such an appetite for crabs that nothing else would do at all ; he felt that he must have a crab .  And God , like a father , rejoicing to see His children as pleasant and happy as he , Would have no more quarrel with the Devil or the barrel , But kiss him , and give him both drink and apparel .  The dining parlour will admit eighteen couple with ease ; card-tables may be placed in the drawing-room ; the library may be open for tea and other refreshments ; and let the supper be set out in the saloon . '  `` When Frank left us , '' continued he , `` it was quite uncertain when we might see him again , which makes this day 's news doubly welcome .  To youth and natural cheerfulness like Emma 's , though under temporary gloom at night , the return of day will hardly fail to bring return of spirits .  Charles Musgrove , indeed , afterwards , shewed more of inclination ; `` the child was going on so well , and he wished so much to be introduced to Captain Wentworth , that , perhaps , he might join them in the evening ; he would not dine from home , but he might walk in for half an hour . ''  His demands and your inexperience together , on a small , very small income , must have brought on distresses which would not be the LESS grievous to you , from having been entirely unknown and unthought of before .  But even the donkey was not so slow as this ; the new steed was slower than he .  The reason was , of course , that the Elephant had something solid to brace against , and , beside , as fast as he pulled the rope in a little , he took a turn with it round his trunk !  `` You do quite right , '' said she ; -- '' we will make your apologies to Mr. and Mrs .  Has not my consent been daily asked by his looks , his manner , his attentive and affectionate respect ?  Could it be Mr Elliot ?  said the Ducks .  She had not seen him before since his engagement became public , and therefore not since his knowing her to be acquainted with it ; which , with the consciousness of what she had been thinking of , and what she had to tell him , made her feel particularly uncomfortable for some minutes .  He and I had a great deal of talk about it ; and the best of all is , that he is gone back again to Harley Street , that he may be within call when Mrs. Ferrars is told of it , for she was sent for as soon as ever my cousins left the house , for your sister was sure SHE would be in hysterics too ; and so she may , for what I care .  Mrs Musgrove was of a comfortable , substantial size , infinitely more fitted by nature to express good cheer and good humour , than tenderness and sentiment ; and while the agitations of Anne 's slender form , and pensive face , may be considered as very completely screened , Captain Wentworth should be allowed some credit for the self-command with which he attended to her large fat sighings over the destiny of a son , whom alive nobody had cared for .  `` It will not do , '' whispered Frank to Emma ; `` they are most of them affronted .  `` Well ; -- if _you_ wish me to stay and join the party , I will . ''  `` I am convinced , '' said Edward , `` that you really feel all the delight in a fine prospect which you profess to feel .  he said , -- `` I have run away from a little old woman , `` A little old man , `` A cow , `` And I can run away from you , I can ! ''  `` You are a very warm friend to Mr. Martin ; but , as I said before , are unjust to Harriet .  Ah !  Well , I went , left all that I loved , and went to those to whom , at best , I was only indifferent .  The beast he took hold of seemed very small , and , as he mounted , he felt that its sides were moist and slimy .  `` Though he had not nerves for coming away with us , and setting off again afterwards to pay a formal visit here , he will make his way over to Kellynch one day by himself , you may depend on it .  Mr. Knightley had another reason for avoiding a table in the shade .  They met with the utmost friendliness .  Margery liked it , because now the garden began to look _like_ a garden .  Can you be ? ''  Stokes. -- Every body invited , was certainly to come ; Frank had already written to Enscombe to propose staying a few days beyond his fortnight , which could not possibly be refused .  She saw , that in persuading herself , in fancying , in acting to the contrary , she had been entirely under a delusion , totally ignorant of her own heart -- and , in short , that she had never really cared for Frank Churchill at all !  When Robert first sought her acquaintance , and privately visited her in Bartlett 's Buildings , it was only with the view imputed to him by his brother .  IV .  She left to my care her only child , a little girl , the offspring of her first guilty connection , who was then about three years old .  Mr Elliot was rational , discreet , polished , but he was not open .  When the gloves were bought , and they had quitted the shop again , `` Did you ever hear the young lady we were speaking of , play ? ''  This was her history ; and particularly interesting it was to Mr. Woodhouse , who commended her very much for thinking of sending for Perry , and only regretted that she had not done it .  `` I never saw you wear a ring before , Edward , '' she cried .  His first proposition and request , that the dance begun at Mr. Cole 's should be finished there -- that the same party should be collected , and the same musician engaged , met with the readiest acquiescence .  If you know it already , as surely you must , I may be spared . ''  She would not be ashamed of the appearance of the penitence , so justly and truly hers .  Every thing as natural and simple as possible .  But I am sorry to relate what ensued .  In no other light could you have been more to me than a common acquaintance .  `` Oh !  And all the grandeur of the connexion seemed dependent on the elder sister , who was _very_ _well_ _married_ , to a gentleman in a _great_ _way_ , near Bristol , who kept two carriages !  A DREAM Once a dream did weave a shade O'er my angel-guarded bed , That an emmet lost its way Where on grass methought I lay .  `` He came to their father upon some business , and he asked him to stay to dinner . ''  Martin ! ''  She sat an hour with me on Monday evening , and gave me the whole history . ''  `` Oh , oh ! ''  After waiting a moment , as if to be sure she intended to say no more , he replied ,  `` You will stay , I am sure ; you will stay and nurse her ; '' cried he , turning to her and speaking with a glow , and yet a gentleness , which seemed almost restoring the past .  `` Well , my dear , '' she cried , `` I sent you up to the young man .  Charles and Mary still talked on in the same style ; he , half serious and half jesting , maintaining the scheme for the play , and she , invariably serious , most warmly opposing it , and not omitting to make it known that , however determined to go to Camden Place herself , she should not think herself very well used , if they went to the play without her .  Anne 's mind was in a most favourable state for the entertainment of the evening ; it was just occupation enough : she had feelings for the tender , spirits for the gay , attention for the scientific , and patience for the wearisome ; and had never liked a concert better , at least during the first act .  Mr. Weston would not be blind to folly , though in his own son ; but he is very likely to have a more yielding , complying , mild disposition than would suit your notions of man 's perfection .  `` I hope you did not venture far , Miss Fairfax , this morning , or I am sure you must have been wet. -- We scarcely got home in time .  Oh !  Too much indebted to the event for his acquittal. -- No judge of his own manners by you. -- Always deceived in fact by his own wishes , and regardless of little besides his own convenience. -- Fancying you to have fathomed his secret .  Extend it a little farther , and it will make me happy .  As she said the words a wonderful light glowed from her heart , the sound of thunder rolled through the sky , and a love greater than words can tell filled the Cloud ; down , down , close to the earth she swept , and gave up her life in a blessed , healing shower of rain .  It was not with Mrs. Suckling , it was not with Mrs. Bragge , but in felicity and splendour it fell short only of them : it was with a cousin of Mrs. Bragge , an acquaintance of Mrs. Suckling , a lady known at Maple Grove .  We are not asked to dine with them , however , till the day after , Mrs Musgrove is so afraid of her being fatigued by the journey , which is not very likely , considering the care that will be taken of her ; and it would be much more convenient to me to dine there to-morrow .  Pray make my excuses and adieus to her . ''  I am sorry to say that my patronage ends with this ; and my interest is hardly more extensive .  Louisa could not listen at all to his account of a conversation which he had just held with Dr Shirley : she was at a window , looking out for Captain Wentworth ; and even Henrietta had at best only a divided attention to give , and seemed to have forgotten all the former doubt and solicitude of the negotiation .  so charming as you are ! ''  He waited a minute or two , but heard nothing more .  They came also for a stroll till breakfast was likely to be ready ; but Louisa recollecting , immediately afterwards that she had something to procure at a shop , invited them all to go back with her into the town .  Mrs. Elton had most kindly sent Jane a note , or we should have been. -- But two such offers in one day ! -- Never were such neighbours .  What !  `` Come , '' said he , `` you are anxious for a compliment , so I will tell you that you have improved her .  I had a vast deal more to say to you , but I must not stay away from them not any longer .  --  Another minute brought another addition .  I was never more astonished .  Little boy , Full of joy ; Little girl , Sweet and small ; Cock does crow , So do you ; Merry voice , Infant noise ; Merrily , merrily , to welcome in the year .  I think my father certainly ought to hear of it ; do mention all about him . ''  The courtiers started from their seats , and drew their swords .  He may be a bully , because great big people are very apt to be bullies , and though I have n't seen him , I guess Buster Bear is big enough from all I have heard , but I do n't see how he is a thief , '' said Grandfather Frog .  But when the hermit told him the story of his prayer and the angel's answer , the poor clown was transfigured with joy , for he knew that his sins were forgiven .  Grandfather Frog looked up at jolly , round , bright Mr. Sun and slowly winked one of his great , goggly eyes .  The park would be open to him of course , and few navy officers , or men of any other description , can have had such a range ; but what restrictions I might impose on the use of the pleasure-grounds , is another thing .  If I were you , whatever I did should be done at my own discretion entirely .  They were both in ecstasies .  Elinor looked as if she wished to hear more .  It was the only intelligible motive .  Buster Bear had what looked to Blacky very much like a tin pail hanging from his neck !  We were last night at Lady Middleton 's , where there was a dance .  Presently the Emperor felt his heart grow warm , then he felt the blood flow through his limbs again ; he listened to the song until the tears ran down his cheeks ; he knew that it was the little real Nightingale who had flown away from him when the gold nightingale came .  She was sensible of all the affection it evinced .  He had explained away all the appearance of neglect on his own side .  Makes my mouth water just to think of it .  It is so delightful that you should live at the cottage !  `` There is a wolf in the flock !  `` Oh , '' cried Miss Steele , looking significantly round at them , `` I dare say Lucy 's beau is quite as modest and pretty behaved as Miss Dashwood 's . ''  But the funniest thing of all is this -- he took that pail with him !  there I am -- thinking of him directly .  thought Prince Cherry .  Emma was gratified , to observe such a proof in her of strengthened character , and refrained from any allusion that might endanger its maintenance .  you amuse me excessively .  Dear Miss Woodhouse , he would be thirty years old ! ''  Call it gossip , if you will , but when Nurse Rooke has half an hour 's leisure to bestow on me , she is sure to have something to relate that is entertaining and profitable : something that makes one know one 's species better .  It is said that there were two quite different kinds of people in Ireland : one set of people with long dark hair and dark eyes , called Fomorians -- they carried long slender spears made of golden bronze when they fought -- and another race of people who were golden-haired and blue-eyed , and who carried short , blunt , heavy spears of dull metal .  Emma was sorry ; -- to have to pay civilities to a person she did not like through three long months ! -- to be always doing more than she wished , and less than she ought !  But at the end of that time , she saw that it would not be possible to keep him safe any longer .  I declare , I have no patience with your sister ; and I hope , with all my heart , it will be a match in spite of her .  I do n't believe anybody can be smarter than Buster Bear . ''  I think her the very worst sort of companion that Emma could possibly have .  My nephews and nieces ! -- I shall often have a niece with me . ''  Considering how very handsome she is , she appears to be little occupied with it ; her vanity lies another way .  `` You shall have them , dear , '' said the grey man , and he shook his strange grey cloak .  So it was soon agreed that the garden should be the first thing attended to .  Mrs Croft left them , and Captain Wentworth , having sealed his letter with great rapidity , was indeed ready , and had even a hurried , agitated air , which shewed impatience to be gone .  She was sure of a pleasant reception ; and her friend seemed this morning particularly obliged to her for coming , seemed hardly to have expected her , though it had been an appointment .  allow me to interpret this interesting silence .  He brought his axe and his saw , and he made a plough .  But Prince Cherry had been rather spoiled by his nurse when he was a child ; she had always said to him that when he should become king he could do exactly as he pleased .  Mr. Weston seems an excellent creature -- quite a first-rate favourite with me already , I assure you .  I am almost afraid that every moment will bring him . ''  Whatever Marianne was desirous of , her mother would be eager to promote -- she could not expect to influence the latter to cautiousness of conduct in an affair respecting which she had never been able to inspire her with distrust ; and she dared not explain the motive of her own disinclination for going to London .  Sir John was ready to like anybody , and though Mr. Dashwood did not seem to know much about horses , he soon set him down as a very good-natured fellow : while Lady Middleton saw enough of fashion in his appearance to think his acquaintance worth having ; and Mr. Dashwood went away delighted with both .  It was beginning to rain again , and altogether there was a delay , and a bustle , and a talking , which must make all the little crowd in the shop understand that Lady Dalrymple was calling to convey Miss Elliot .  Yes , we DO know it all .  I have travelled so little , that every fresh place would be interesting to me ; but there is real beauty at Lyme ; and in short '' ( with a faint blush at some recollections ) , `` altogether my impressions of the place are very agreeable . ''  I had quite depended upon meeting you there .  The Miss Steeles , as she expected , had now all the benefit of these jokes , and in the eldest of them they raised a curiosity to know the name of the gentleman alluded to , which , though often impertinently expressed , was perfectly of a piece with her general inquisitiveness into the concerns of their family .  Many and many a night this old Fox used to lie awake and think to himself how good that little Red Hen would taste if he could once get her in his big kettle and boil her for dinner .  The tailor gave a prod of the knife , and he let the broth out of the skin .  She depended on the evil feelings of the Eltons for supplying all the discipline of pointed neglect that could be farther requisite. -- Harriet rational , Frank Churchill not too much in love , and Mr. Knightley not wanting to quarrel with her , how very happy a summer must be before her !  It was all said very gracefully , and the cards with which she had provided herself , the `` Miss Elliot at home , '' were laid on the table , with a courteous , comprehensive smile to all , and one smile and one card more decidedly for Captain Wentworth .  The trouble was , that three giants lived in the wood near the court , and every night they came out of the wood and threw down all that was built by day .  You saw I did not all dinner time .  `` Do you know what kind of a girl Miss Grey is ?  Things must come to a crisis soon now .  It was rather too late in the day to set about being simple-minded and ignorant ; but she left her with every previous resolution confirmed of being humble and discreet , and repressing imagination all the rest of her life .  He was afraid poor Isabella would not like it .  Elinor thought this generosity overstrained , considering her sister 's youth , and urged the matter farther , but in vain ; common sense , common care , common prudence , were all sunk in Mrs. Dashwood 's romantic delicacy .  To her he looked for comfort ; and her assurances of safety , her representation of the excellence of the horses , and of James , and of their having so many friends about them , revived him a little .  I am sure I wonder my heart is not quite broke . ''  how could it be ? -- Then I must have dreamt it -- but I was completely persuaded -- Miss Smith , you walk as if you were tired .  `` Never !  She is so pale that I think she has lost her colour for fear of us . ''  How could she save him from death ?  `` I could manage them very well , if it were not for Mary 's interference , '' was what Anne often heard him say , and had a good deal of faith in ; but when listening in turn to Mary 's reproach of `` Charles spoils the children so that I can not get them into any order , '' she never had the smallest temptation to say , `` Very true . ''  You have scolded me too much for match-making , for me to presume to take such a liberty with you .  Her own attachment had really subsided into a mere nothing ; it was not worth thinking of ; -- but if he , who had undoubtedly been always so much the most in love of the two , were to be returning with the same warmth of sentiment which he had taken away , it would be very distressing .  `` No , no , some time or other , perhaps , but not now .  But have you likewise heard that Miss Grey has fifty thousand pounds ?  You know , my dear , she is going to be to this new lady what Miss Taylor was to us .  When the bread was baked , she said , `` Who will eat this bread ? ''  `` Oh !  Anne , attending with all the strength and zeal , and thought , which instinct supplied , to Henrietta , still tried , at intervals , to suggest comfort to the others , tried to quiet Mary , to animate Charles , to assuage the feelings of Captain Wentworth .  His voice is strong ; When things go wrong Blacky is a screamer !  Sweet moans , dovelike sighs , Chase not slumber from thine eyes !  He said , -- `` When I do n't see any little crabs on the land I generally see them sticking out of the water , and then I put my paw in and catch them .  To consider it as the certain wish of every being who could hope to influence you !  said Mr. Weston , looking about .  She thinks nobody equal to him . ''  `` Be satisfied , '' said he , `` I will not raise any outcry .  I know very little of Dorsetshire ; but , my dear Elinor , I shall be exceedingly glad to know more of it ; and I think I can answer for your having Fanny and myself among the earliest and best pleased of your visitors . ''  She had many acquaintance in the place , for her father was universally civil , but not one among them who could be accepted in lieu of Miss Taylor for even half a day .  His heart was full of pity and rage .  As for Willoughby -- to say that I shall soon or that I shall ever forget him , would be idle .  Could it be weeds ?  ONE is my wealth !  It must be that for once he has been smarter than Buster Bear . ''  poor Miss Taylor !  She could not but hear ; she could not avoid answering ,  `` Sir Henry Russell 's widow , indeed , has no honours to distinguish her arms , but still it is a handsome equipage , and no doubt is well known to convey a Miss Elliot .  THE TALKATIVE TORTOISE Once upon a time , a Tortoise lived in a pond with two Ducks , who were her very good friends .  How can Lyca sleep If her mother weep ?  But I see what you mean .  she said .  He must be either indifferent or unwilling .  had it , by any blessed felicity , occurred to her , to institute the comparison. -- She saw that there never had been a time when she did not consider Mr. Knightley as infinitely the superior , or when his regard for her had not been infinitely the most dear .  Elinor was quite of her opinion , as to the probability of their not waiting for any thing more .  I will answer for the gentleman 's indifference . ''  The preferment , which only two days before she had considered as hopeless for Edward , was already provided to enable him to marry ; -- and SHE , of all people in the world , was fixed on to bestow it ! -- Her emotion was such as Mrs. Jennings had attributed to a very different cause ; -- but whatever minor feelings less pure , less pleasing , might have a share in that emotion , her esteem for the general benevolence , and her gratitude for the particular friendship , which together prompted Colonel Brandon to this act , were strongly felt , and warmly expressed .  `` And when , '' thought Emma , `` will there be a beginning of Mr .  `` I am not wishing him too much good , '' said Marianne at last with a sigh , `` when I wish his secret reflections may be no more unpleasant than my own .  Jemima is so careful ; and she could send us word every hour how he was .  Anne found Captain Benwick again drawing near her .  -- She paused .  `` I am sorry for that , '' returned the other , while her eyes brightened at the information , `` it would have gave me such pleasure to meet you there !  `` I shall never see her , if she goes by London . ''  dashing about with his curricle and hunters !  Life could do nothing for her , beyond giving time for a better preparation for death ; and that was given .  That is the way the tailor killed the third giant .  His society became gradually her most exquisite enjoyment .  A situation such as you deserve , and your friends would require for you , is no everyday occurrence , is not obtained at a moment 's notice ; indeed , indeed , we must begin inquiring directly . ''  CHAPTER III  `` Harriet must give us as much of her company as she can while my brother and sister are here .  How do you like them ? ''  Lucy 's marriage , the unceasing and reasonable wonder among them all , formed of course one of the earliest discussions of the lovers ; -- and Elinor 's particular knowledge of each party made it appear to her in every view , as one of the most extraordinary and unaccountable circumstances she had ever heard .  `` No , indeed , not us .  She feared it was a strengthening regard .  Go and eat and drink a little more , and you will do very well .  `` Well , and how soon will he be ready ? -- For it seems all to depend upon that . ''  But Marianne , in her place , would not have done so little .  Mrs. Jennings enforced the necessity .  I hope they are quite well .  gentle may I lay me down and gentle rest my head .  Captain Wentworth turned in to call on his friend ; the others walked on , and he was to join them on the Cobb .  We must allow for the effect of shade , you know . ''  `` Yes -- entirely her own doing , entirely her own choice ; and Colonel and Mrs. Campbell think she does quite right , just what they should recommend ; and indeed they particularly _wish_ her to try her native air , as she has not been quite so well as usual lately . ''  `` Do n't class us together , Harriet .  In her earnest meditations on the contents of the letter , on the depravity of that mind which could dictate it , and probably , on the very different mind of a very different person , who had no other connection whatever with the affair than what her heart gave him with every thing that passed , Elinor forgot the immediate distress of her sister , forgot that she had three letters on her lap yet unread , and so entirely forgot how long she had been in the room , that when on hearing a carriage drive up to the door , she went to the window to see who could be coming so unreasonably early , she was all astonishment to perceive Mrs. Jennings 's chariot , which she knew had not been ordered till one .  I had depended on her fortitude too far , and the blow was a severe one -- but had her marriage been happy , so young as I then was , a few months must have reconciled me to it , or at least I should not have now to lament it .  she is absolutely charming !  And when she was n't wearing it she kept it in the shiny acorn box .  `` That can not be much to your taste , I know , '' said she ; `` but I do believe him to be an excellent young man . ''  `` Break it to me , '' cried Emma , standing still with terror. -- `` Good God ! -- Mr .  Every body is asleep ! ''  She would have ordered the carriage , and come to you , but she must see you _alone_ , and that you know -- ( nodding towards her father ) -- Humph ! -- Can you come ? ''  I will not allow books to prove anything . ''  He had been afraid that they might stupidly kick over the pail and spill the berries , and he had hurried to drive whoever it was away .  Their being her relations too made it so much the worse ; and Mrs. Jennings 's attempts at consolation were therefore unfortunately founded , when she advised her daughter not to care about their being so fashionable ; because they were all cousins and must put up with one another .  The event , however , was most joyful ; and every day was giving her fresh reason for thinking so. -- Harriet 's parentage became known .  In a morning 's excursion to Exeter , they had met with two young ladies , whom Mrs. Jennings had the satisfaction of discovering to be her relations , and this was enough for Sir John to invite them directly to the park , as soon as their present engagements at Exeter were over .  Knightley. -- '' Robert Martin 's manners have sense , sincerity , and good-humour to recommend them ; and his mind has more true gentility than Harriet Smith could understand . ''  Presently Mr. Knightley looked back , and came and sat down by her .  This was Colonel Campbell , who had very highly regarded Fairfax , as an excellent officer and most deserving young man ; and farther , had been indebted to him for such attentions , during a severe camp-fever , as he believed had saved his life .  why does he not look at me ?  She had already acknowledged it to herself , and she could not think differently , let him think of her as he would .  It was an advantage that could not be too gratefully acknowledged , nor too speedily made use of ; and the visit to Lady Middleton , which had not before had any precise limits , was instantly discovered to have been always meant to end in two days ' time .  `` Thank you , dear Miss Woodhouse , you are all kindness. -- It is impossible to say -- Yes , indeed , I quite understand -- dearest Jane 's prospects -- that is , I do not mean. -- But she is charmingly recovered. -- How is Mr .  `` Willoughby ! ''  But , upon my word , I am scarcely sensible of his attentions being beyond those of other men . ''  `` Miss Woodhouse , '' said Frank Churchill , after examining a table behind him , which he could reach as he sat , `` have your nephews taken away their alphabets -- their box of letters ?  At the next little pool the same thing happened .  Little Joe put the fish back on the log and waited .  And as Buster listened it suddenly came to him just what he wanted for breakfast .  One always knows beforehand what the dinner will be , and who will be there ; and it is so very uncomfortable not having a carriage of one 's own .  Now I 've got a plan by which we can see for ourselves if he really is afraid of Buster Bear . ''  Not that I think Mr. Martin would ever marry any body but what had had some education -- and been very well brought up .  After her entrance , Colonel Brandon became more thoughtful and silent than he had been before , and Mrs. Jennings could not prevail on him to stay long .  His attentive deference to her father , contrasted with his former language , was odious ; and when she thought of his cruel conduct towards Mrs Smith , she could hardly bear the sight of his present smiles and mildness , or the sound of his artificial good sentiments .  Edward saw enough to comprehend , not only the meaning of others , but such of Marianne 's expressions as had puzzled him before ; and when their visitors left them , he went immediately round her , and said , in a whisper , `` I have been guessing .  `` That cow must be stuck mighty tight '' ; and he drove his tail deep in the water , and gave a marvellous pull .  -- `I can see nobody , ' said she ; and up she got , and would go away ; and that was what made us keep you waiting -- and extremely sorry and ashamed we were .  Buster did n't seem to mind .  Kitty , a fair but frozen maid .  But what was that , when such friends were to be met ? ''  He was to be introduced , and Mrs Wallis was to be introduced , and everybody was to be introduced .  I wonder what I should do with it ! ''  He LOOKED all the astonishment which such unexpected , such unthought-of information could not fail of exciting ; but he said only these two words ,  `` I had only my own family to study from .  `` Time , my dearest Emma , time will heal the wound. -- Your own excellent sense -- your exertions for your father 's sake -- I know you will not allow yourself -- . ''  The aunt and niece seemed both escaping into the adjoining room .  And then rising , she went away to join Marianne , whom she found , as she expected , in her own room , leaning , in silent misery , over the small remains of a fire , which , till Elinor 's entrance , had been her only light .  But there was nobody there to bring the drum .  How does it shut ? ''  said almost every body .  To Marianne , he merely bowed and said nothing .  Sixteen years had Miss Taylor been in Mr. Woodhouse 's family , less as a governess than a friend , very fond of both daughters , but particularly of Emma .  `` Mr. Wingfield most strenuously recommended it , sir -- or we should not have gone .  He left him there then , and he came to Dublin .  And he went off , hoppity-kick , hoppity-kick , leaving the Wind to smother .  `` Good heavens ! ''  Mr. Elton certainly did not very well know what to say .  Of course this made Little Joe angrier than ever .  Louisa Alcott , for that was Louisa 's name , wrote many beautiful books after this , and she became one of the most famous women of America .  `` Perhaps you may not have heard that he is married ? ''  Speak , father , speak to you little boy , Or else I shall be lost . ''  A little while ago , every letter to Isabella brought an account of fresh gaieties ; dinners at Mr. Cole 's , or balls at the Crown .  Then she is no rule for Mrs. Churchill , who is as thorough a fine lady as any body ever beheld . ''  On another ,  said Elinor .  and that 's so dreadful ! ''  The ladies had passed near it in their way along the valley , but it was screened from their view at home by the projection of a hill .  No , I would not be the means of giving them any pain .  Excellent fellow .  They could go there again with them in the autumn .  It was not thrown away on her , she bounded higher than ever , flew farther down the middle , and was in a continual course of smiles .  can this be possible ! ''  In one of these excursive glances she perceived among a group of young men , the very he , who had given them a lecture on toothpick-cases at Gray 's .  No lurking horrors were to upbraid him for his easy credulity .  The plan was that she should be brought up for educating others ; the very few hundred pounds which she inherited from her father making independence impossible .  One morning , about this time Charles Musgrove and Captain Wentworth being gone a-shooting together , as the sisters in the Cottage were sitting quietly at work , they were visited at the window by the sisters from the Mansion-house .  Even if this family , the Braithwaites , are put off , I am still afraid that some excuse may be found for disappointing us .  He understood what would be welcome ; he could be sure of little else .  Mr. Weston 's ball was to be a real thing .  My Elinor , is it possible to doubt their engagement ?  _He_ had done it .  He did justice to his very gentlemanlike appearance , his air of elegance and fashion , his good shaped face , his sensible eye ; but , at the same time , `` must lament his being very much under-hung , a defect which time seemed to have increased ; nor could he pretend to say that ten years had not altered almost every feature for the worse .  It was as follows :  But it is not in my power to delay my journey for one day ! ''  I assure you , Jane Fairfax is a very delightful character , and interests me more than I can express . ''  `` And those times are whenever he thinks it worth his while ; whenever there is any temptation of pleasure . ''  I am much mistaken if Emma 's doctrines give any strength of mind , or tend at all to make a girl adapt herself rationally to the varieties of her situation in life. -- They only give a little polish . ''  `` You will not like him , I will answer for it . ''  `` If you are very kind , '' said he , `` it will be one of the waltzes we danced last night ; -- let me live them over again .  Married women , you know , may be safely authorised .  I will attack them with more address .  Mrs Musgrove was giving Mrs Croft the history of her eldest daughter 's engagement , and just in that inconvenient tone of voice which was perfectly audible while it pretended to be a whisper .  THE TEN FAIRIES Once upon a time there was a dear little girl , whose name was Elsa .  You know I am always ready to pay them any attention in my power , as my taking them out this evening shews .  So says my historian , at least .  He loved to have the cloth laid , because it had been the fashion of his youth , but his conviction of suppers being very unwholesome made him rather sorry to see any thing put on it ; and while his hospitality would have welcomed his visitors to every thing , his care for their health made him grieve that they would eat .  It would not mind , and it would go wherever it wanted to ; it walked with a funny little hoppity-kick , hoppity-kick , and got along pretty fast .  Could she have chosen with whom to associate , she would not have chosen her .  no '' -- and Emma could just catch the words , `` so superior to Mr .  She was not in a humour , however , to regard it as an affront , and affecting to take no notice of what passed , by instantly talking of something else , she internally resolved henceforward to catch every opportunity of eyeing the hair and of satisfying herself , beyond all doubt , that it was exactly the shade of her own .  `` Perhaps , then , '' he hesitatingly replied , `` what I heard this morning may be -- there may be more truth in it than I could believe possible at first . ''  The greatest kindness you can shew me , will be to let me have my own way , and only say that I am gone when it is necessary . ''  At last , Lady Russell drew back her head .  It would be unpardonable to fail .  `` I can not wish to be snowed up a week at Randalls . ''  She had never in her life been more astonished .  Margaret was so careful and so good at business that , in spite of her giving , she bought more cows and earned more money .  All that were good would be withdrawn ; and if to these losses , the loss of Donwell were to be added , what would remain of cheerful or of rational society within their reach ?  Thank you , we do indeed .  That I should ever have meant more you will allow to be impossible , when you understand that my affections have been long engaged elsewhere , and it will not be many weeks , I believe , before this engagement is fulfilled .  The first three or four days passed most quietly , with no circumstance to mark them excepting the receipt of a note or two from Lyme , which found their way to Anne , she could not tell how , and brought a rather improving account of Louisa .  Upon my word , Jane on one arm , and me on the other ! -- Stop , stop , let us stand a little back , Mrs. Elton is going ; dear Mrs. Elton , how elegant she looks ! -- Beautiful lace ! -- Now we all follow in her train .  I only want to know that Mr. Martin is not very , very bitterly disappointed . ''  To enquire after Marianne was at first his excuse ; but the encouragement of his reception , to which every day gave greater kindness , made such an excuse unnecessary before it had ceased to be possible , by Marianne 's perfect recovery .  _Perfection_ should not have come quite so soon . ''  And I believe Marianne will be the most happy with him of the two . ''  No , upon my honour , there is no unsteadiness of character .  And so it was that Buster Bear became a hero right away to most of them .  And besides that , my cousin Richard said himself , that when it came to the point he was afraid Mr. Ferrars would be off ; and when Edward did not come near us for three days , I could not tell what to think myself ; and I believe in my heart Lucy gave it up all for lost ; for we came away from your brother 's Wednesday , and we saw nothing of him not all Thursday , Friday , and Saturday , and did not know what was become of him .  Events of every description , changes , alienations , removals -- all , all must be comprised in it , and oblivion of the past -- how natural , how certain too !  `` You would not have encouraged me , then , if you had understood me ?  I Always take the part of my own sex .  So the poor old Lion floundered about and floundered about , and as he could n't get up the steep sides of the well , he was at last drowned .  `` You understand the force of influence pretty well , Harriet ; but I would have you so firmly established in good society , as to be independent even of Hartfield and Miss Woodhouse .  Was not the Fir Tree richly rewarded for its meekness ?  `` Where is it ? ''  I am very angry with you . ''  When they came to converse , she was soon sensible of some mental change .  I should not have supposed that you could have found anything in Lyme to inspire such a feeling .  They talked at first only of the performance .  He had intended , on first arriving , to proceed very soon into Shropshire , and visit the brother settled in that country , but the attractions of Uppercross induced him to put this off .  The revolution which one instant had made in Anne , was almost beyond expression .  He is but young , and his uncle , perhaps -- ''  `` Dear me !  What else can detain him at Norland ? ''  And then , when the Philistine arose , and came , and drew nigh to meet David , David made haste and ran toward the army to meet the Philistine .  His company so sought after , that every body says he need not eat a single meal by himself if he does not chuse it ; that he has more invitations than there are days in the week .  `` And because I am happy and dance and sing , They think they have done me no injury , And are gone to praise God and his priest and king , Who make up a heaven of our misery . ''  But when you mentioned Mrs. Dixon , I felt how much more probable that it should be the tribute of warm female friendship .  `` Is not this song worth staying for ? ''  `` There were misunderstandings between them , Emma ; he said so expressly .  I trust to being in charity with her soon .  CHAPTER 11  `` You are going in , I suppose ? ''  Harriet may pick and chuse .  The portraits themselves seemed to be staring in astonishment .  He let his keepers lead him away to the royal menagerie without hurting them .  `` A man , '' said he , `` must have a very good opinion of himself when he asks people to leave their own fireside , and encounter such a day as this , for the sake of coming to see him .  `` There is no use in staying here ; I must be off . ''  They do n't look alike when they are on the table ! ''  I never saw Mrs. Weston better in my life -- never looking so well .  Anne , have you courage to go with me , and pay a visit in that house ?  `` Oh yes ; next week . ''  Elton ? ''  But fetch them both .  said Mrs Musgrove to Mrs Croft .  Mrs. Dashwood smiled , and said nothing .  To Hartfield , if you please , Mrs .  Mrs. Palmer 's eye was now caught by the drawings which hung round the room .  THE GULLS OF SALT LAKE The story I am going to tell you is about something that really happened , many years ago .  XII FARMER BROWN 'S BOY AND BUSTER BEAR GROW CURIOUS Ever since it was light enough to see at all , Blacky the Crow had been sitting in the top of the tallest tree on the edge of the Green Forest nearest to Farmer Brown 's house , and never for an instant had he taken his eyes from Farmer Brown 's back door .  I am exceedingly obliged to you , Mrs. Elton , I am obliged to any body who feels for me , but I am quite serious in wishing nothing to be done till the summer .  He gave her to understand that Frank admired her extremely -- thought her very beautiful and very charming ; and with so much to be said for him altogether , she found she must not judge him harshly .  `` True , true , '' cried Mr. Knightley , with most ready interposition -- `` very true .  They were soon dining in company together at Mr Musgrove 's , for the little boy 's state could no longer supply his aunt with a pretence for absenting herself ; and this was but the beginning of other dinings and other meetings .  `` Well , Miss Woodhouse ! ''  This time it was a most beautiful young girl , named Zelia ; the prince saw her , and loved her so much that he wanted at once to make her his queen .  Anxiety and hope now oppressed her in equal degrees , and left her no moment of tranquillity till the arrival of Mr. Harris at four o'clock ; -- when his assurances , his felicitations on a recovery in her sister even surpassing his expectation , gave her confidence , comfort , and tears of joy .  With apprehensive caution therefore it was revealed , and he was listened to with unexpected calmness .  always my kindest friend on every occasion .  `` I can not express my disappointment in having missed you the day before yesterday , nor my astonishment at not having received any answer to a note which I sent you above a week ago .  And away he went , hoppity-kick , hoppity-kick , over the fields .  `` I am going to Dublin , '' said the tailor , `` to build a court for the king and to get a lady for a wife , if I am able to do it . ''  `` Read it , read it , '' said he , `` it will give you pleasure ; only a few lines -- will not take you long ; read it to Emma . ''  `` No -- It will not be worth while .  Still , however , though every thing had not been accomplished by her ingenious device , she could not but flatter herself that it had been the occasion of much present enjoyment to both , and must be leading them forward to the great event .  said she .  And so many children poor ?  `` I hardly know , '' replied Captain Wentworth , surprised .  `` Mr. Edward Ferrars , the eldest son of Mrs. Ferrars , of Park Street , and brother of your sister-in-law , Mrs. John Dashwood , is the person I mean ; you must allow that I am not likely to be deceived as to the name of the man on who all my happiness depends . ''  Dost thou O little cloud ?  We will not be severe . ''  Anne had done ; glad that it was over , and not absolutely hopeless of doing good .  This , on his side , might merely proceed from her not being thought of ; but Emma was rather inclined to attribute it to delicacy , and a suspicion , from some appearances , that their friendship were declining .  `` I meant , '' said Elinor , taking up some work from the table , `` to inquire for Mrs. EDWARD Ferrars . ''  And so you must judge for yourself , whether it would be better for you to go about the house or not . ''  Very cautiously , he went down to the river and looked all around .  Otter , '' said he .  He truly wants to marry you .  `` Who could have thought it ?  One spring , when Margery was nine , her father obtained a new situation and they removed to a little house with a nice big piece of ground a short distance outside the town where his new position was .  Another pause ensued ; Marianne was greatly agitated , and it ended thus .  But I would not wish you to take the trouble of making any inquiries at present . ''  Harriet slept at Hartfield that night .  `` Do you know that you are quite rude ? ''  Beyond a competence , it can afford no real satisfaction , as far as mere self is concerned . ''  Where could have been the attraction ?  `` Shyness is only the effect of a sense of inferiority in some way or other .  When any two young people take it into their heads to marry , they are pretty sure by perseverance to carry their point , be they ever so poor , or ever so imprudent , or ever so little likely to be necessary to each other 's ultimate comfort .  Yes , next week .  `` He trifles here , '' said he , `` as to the temptation .  I do not mean to set you against him , but indeed he is not quite the thing ! ''  Elizabeth had nothing to propose of deeper efficacy .  It is what I always protested against for my children .  With difficulty however could she prevent her from following him herself ; and to persuade her to check her agitation , to wait , at least , with the appearance of composure , till she might speak to him with more privacy and more effect , was impossible ; for Marianne continued incessantly to give way in a low voice to the misery of her feelings , by exclamations of wretchedness .  This will not do .  You are afraid of giving me trouble ; but I assure you , my dear Jane , the Campbells can hardly be more interested about you than I am .  Her way was clear , though not quite smooth. -- She spoke then , on being so entreated. -- What did she say ? -- Just what she ought , of course .  The tailor and his wife came home to Galway .  It really was so .  But then there is not so clever a man any where . ''  Determined not to quit Marianne , though hopeless of contributing , at present , to her ease , she hurried away to excuse herself from attending Mrs. Jennings , on account of her sister being indisposed .  She had been often remiss , her conscience told her so ; remiss , perhaps , more in thought than fact ; scornful , ungracious .  And , you know , emperors do not cry at all easily .  There was a very general ignorance of all naval matters throughout the party ; and he was very much questioned , and especially by the two Miss Musgroves , who seemed hardly to have any eyes but for him , as to the manner of living on board , daily regulations , food , hours , & c. , and their surprise at his accounts , at learning the degree of accommodation and arrangement which was practicable , drew from him some pleasant ridicule , which reminded Anne of the early days when she too had been ignorant , and she too had been accused of supposing sailors to be living on board without anything to eat , or any cook to dress it if there were , or any servant to wait , or any knife and fork to use .  The nights were too dark for the ladies to meet again till the morrow , but Captain Harville had promised them a visit in the evening ; and he came , bringing his friend also , which was more than had been expected , it having been agreed that Captain Benwick had all the appearance of being oppressed by the presence of so many strangers .  Nothing , but that the lessons of her past folly might teach her humility and circumspection in future .  A larger society would improve them .  Nobody could nurse her , as we should do . ''  `` I am set to light the ground , While the beetle goes his round : Follow now the beetle 's hum ; Little wanderer , hie thee home ! ''  There was not a dissentient voice on the subject , either when Mrs. Perry drank tea with Mrs. and Miss Bates , or when Mrs. and Miss Bates returned the visit .  yes , my dear , I dare say you might , because you know , the door was open , and the window was open , and Mr. Knightley spoke loud .  Yes ; he had done it .  `` Oh !  I am glad he can afford it .  She was obliged to repeat and explain it , before it was fully comprehended ; and then , being quite new , farther representations were necessary to make it acceptable .  Meanwhile , Sammy Jay was slipping silently through the Green Forest , looking for Buster Bear , so that when the time came he could let his cousin , Blacky the Crow , know just where Buster was .  Lady Russell said not another word , willing to leave the matter to its own operation ; and believing that , could Mr Elliot at that moment with propriety have spoken for himself ! -- she believed , in short , what Anne did not believe .  We will not say how near , for fear of shocking the young ladies . ''  Consider from how partial a quarter your information came .  Never had Marianne been so unwilling to dance in her life , as she was that evening , and never so much fatigued by the exercise .  Little Joe Otter swam straight to the Big Rock and climbed up to the very highest part .  But the snow always said , -- `` Oh no , no , no ; you are too little , you are too little ! ''  But Sir John 's satisfaction in society was much more real ; he delighted in collecting about him more young people than his house would hold , and the noisier they were the better was he pleased .  `` Miss Dashwood , for half an hour -- for ten minutes -- I entreat you to stay . ''  At least , he could n't see any one .  `` Well , '' said Mrs. Weston , laughing , `` perhaps the greatest good he could do them , would be to give Jane such a respectable home . ''  Miss Smith , and Miss Bickerton , another parlour boarder at Mrs. Goddard 's , who had been also at the ball , had walked out together , and taken a road , the Richmond road , which , though apparently public enough for safety , had led them into alarm. -- About half a mile beyond Highbury , making a sudden turn , and deeply shaded by elms on each side , it became for a considerable stretch very retired ; and when the young ladies had advanced some way into it , they had suddenly perceived at a small distance before them , on a broader patch of greensward by the side , a party of gipsies .  A cousin of Mr. Suckling , Mrs. Bragge , had such an infinity of applications ; every body was anxious to be in her family , for she moves in the first circle .  Here it is ; I would not burn it , because being even then very little satisfied with Mr Elliot , I was determined to preserve every document of former intimacy .  She was vexed beyond what could have been expressed -- almost beyond what she could conceal .  Now about this time were found in Denmark two great millstones , so large that no one had the strength to turn them .  She often says , when the letter is first opened , `Well , Hetty , now I think you will be put to it to make out all that checker-work ' -- do n't you , ma'am ? -- And then I tell her , I am sure she would contrive to make it out herself , if she had nobody to do it for her -- every word of it -- I am sure she would pore over it till she had made out every word .  The immediate advantage to herself was by no means inconsiderable , for it supplied her with endless jokes against them both .  `` Oh dear , yes ; I know him extremely well , '' replied Mrs. Palmer ; -- '' Not that I ever spoke to him , indeed ; but I have seen him for ever in town .  You , Miss Dashwood , would give a general commission for every new print of merit to be sent you -- and as for Marianne , I know her greatness of soul , there would not be music enough in London to content her .  There is no doubt that he stole the berries that were in the pail when he found it , for he deliberately ate them .  So now , as he sat in the top of the Big Hickory-tree beside the Smiling Pool and looked down on all the little people gathered there , he was very happy .  The Brahmin went up to him and said , -- `` Brother Bullock , oh , Brother Bullock , does it seem to you a fair thing that this Tiger should eat me up , after I have just freed him from a cage ? ''  I assure you I have no doubt of its doing Mr. Woodhouse good . ''  `` I guessed you would say so '' -- replied Lucy quickly -- '' but there was no reason in the world why Mrs. Ferrars should seem to like me , if she did not , and her liking me is every thing .  Elinor , pleased to have her governed for a moment by such a motive , though believing it hardly possible that she could sit out the dinner , said no more ; and adjusting her dress for her as well as she could , while Marianne still remained on the bed , was ready to assist her into the dining room as soon as they were summoned to it .  very well ; time will explain . ''  what a boat it is ! ''  Were I even by any blessed chance at liberty again -- ''  Nursing does not belong to a man ; it is not his province .  Mr. Elton was speaking with animation , Harriet listening with a very pleased attention ; and Emma , having sent the child on , was beginning to think how she might draw back a little more , when they both looked around , and she was obliged to join them .  `` May you not do as you will ?  you forget yourself -- you take me for my friend -- any message to Miss Smith I shall be happy to deliver ; but no more of this to _me_ , if you please . ''  `` Elinor , for shame ! ''  It can not be doubted that Sir Walter and Elizabeth were shocked and mortified by the loss of their companion , and the discovery of their deception in her .  Mr. Palmer maintained the common , but unfatherly opinion among his sex , of all infants being alike ; and though she could plainly perceive , at different times , the most striking resemblance between this baby and every one of his relations on both sides , there was no convincing his father of it ; no persuading him to believe that it was not exactly like every other baby of the same age ; nor could he even be brought to acknowledge the simple proposition of its being the finest child in the world .  `` I hope I should know better , '' he replied ; `` no , depend upon it , ( with a gallant bow , ) that in addressing Mrs. Weston I should understand whom I might praise without any danger of being thought extravagant in my terms . ''  `` No , indeed , I shall grant you nothing .  Emma was not sorry to be pressed .  Only think if anything should happen ? ''  Anne was not animated to an equal pitch by the circumstance , but she felt that she would rather see Mr Elliot again than not , which was more than she could say for many other persons in Bath .  Do not you think , Miss Elliot , we had better try to get him to Bath ? ''  Captain Wentworth 's eyes were also turned towards her .  The evening of the very day on which they went brought a note from Mr. Elton to Mr. Woodhouse , a long , civil , ceremonious note , to say , with Mr. Elton 's best compliments , `` that he was proposing to leave Highbury the following morning in his way to Bath ; where , in compliance with the pressing entreaties of some friends , he had engaged to spend a few weeks , and very much regretted the impossibility he was under , from various circumstances of weather and business , of taking a personal leave of Mr. Woodhouse , of whose friendly civilities he should ever retain a grateful sense -- and had Mr. Woodhouse any commands , should be happy to attend to them . ''  While he sat there , trying to make up his mind what would taste best , he was listening to the sounds that told of the waking of all the little people who live in the Green Forest .  The preparing and the going abroad in such weather , with the sacrifice of his children after dinner , were evils , were disagreeables at least , which Mr. John Knightley did not by any means like ; he anticipated nothing in the visit that could be at all worth the purchase ; and the whole of their drive to the vicarage was spent by him in expressing his discontent .  No doubt he is a sensible man , and I suppose may have a natural talent for -- thinks strongly and clearly -- and when he takes a pen in hand , his thoughts naturally find proper words .  no , I could not endure William Coxe -- a pert young lawyer . ''  To be tied down to the regular payment of such a sum , on every rent day , is by no means desirable : it takes away one 's independence . ''  Ha !  Tell us if it seems to you fair that this Tiger should eat me up , when I have just saved him from a frightful cage ? ''  If I live long enough I 'm going to get even with him ! ''  Elinor was to be the comforter of others in her own distresses , no less than in theirs ; and all the comfort that could be given by assurances of her own composure of mind , and a very earnest vindication of Edward from every charge but of imprudence , was readily offered .  Mr Musgrove was , in a lesser degree , affected likewise ; and when they reached the cottage , they were evidently in want , first , of being listened to anew on this subject , and afterwards , of all the relief which cheerful companions could give them .  How was such jealousy to be quieted ?  `` Perhaps , '' said Marianne , `` I may consider it with some surprise .  `` But you say yourself that Farmer Brown 's boy did n't see Buster Bear , but only his footprint .  My dear Emma , your own good sense could not endure such a puppy when it came to the point . ''  If you do that , you 'll drown me !  He had met with them in a little perplexity , which must be laid before Emma .  The Crofts took possession with true naval alertness , and were to be visited .  An excellent charade indeed !  Her fancy was very active .  `` Is anything the matter with her ? ''  Mrs Smith hesitated a little here .  I will call another day , and hear the pianoforte . ''  Emma amused herself by protesting that it was very extraordinary , indeed , and that she had not a syllable to say for him .  He had a great deal to say in return , and very entertainingly ; but Emma 's feelings were chiefly with Jane , in the argument ; and on leaving Randalls , and falling naturally into a comparison of the two men , she felt , that pleased as she had been to see Frank Churchill , and really regarding him as she did with friendship , she had never been more sensible of Mr. Knightley 's high superiority of character .  But Buster is so big that it is not easy for him to find a hiding place .  That she was coming to apologize , and that they should have to spend the evening by themselves , was the first black idea ; and Mary was quite ready to be affronted , when Louisa made all right by saying , that she only came on foot , to leave more room for the harp , which was bringing in the carriage .  Though aware , before she began it , that it must bring a confession of his inconstancy , and confirm their separation for ever , she was not aware that such language could be suffered to announce it ; nor could she have supposed Willoughby capable of departing so far from the appearance of every honourable and delicate feeling -- so far from the common decorum of a gentleman , as to send a letter so impudently cruel : a letter which , instead of bringing with his desire of a release any professions of regret , acknowledged no breach of faith , denied all peculiar affection whatever -- a letter of which every line was an insult , and which proclaimed its writer to be deep in hardened villainy .  `` Oh !  Frank Churchill had behaved very ill by herself -- very ill in many ways , -- but it was not so much _his_ behaviour as her _own_ , which made her so angry with him .  By and by the back door of Farmer Brown 's house opened , and out stepped Farmer Brown 's boy .  -- She could really say nothing. -- '' You are silent , '' he cried , with great animation ; `` absolutely silent !  And you can be always with me .  She was told that now he wrote with the greatest confidence of being often with them , almost as often as he could even wish .  as to that , when a man has once made up his mind to such a thing , somehow or other he will soon find an opportunity .  he is black at heart , hollow and black ! ''  He seemed to be almost asking her , whether her affections were engaged. -- But as soon as she ( Miss Woodhouse ) appeared likely to join them , he changed the subject , and began talking about farming : -- The second , was his having sat talking with her nearly half an hour before Emma came back from her visit , the very last morning of his being at Hartfield -- though , when he first came in , he had said that he could not stay five minutes -- and his having told her , during their conversation , that though he must go to London , it was very much against his inclination that he left home at all , which was much more ( as Emma felt ) than he had acknowledged to _her_ .  It was a merry , joyous party , and no one seemed in higher spirits than Captain Wentworth .  `` How good poor Piccola must have been ! ''  Between Barton and Delaford , there was that constant communication which strong family affection would naturally dictate ; -- and among the merits and the happiness of Elinor and Marianne , let it not be ranked as the least considerable , that though sisters , and living almost within sight of each other , they could live without disagreement between themselves , or producing coolness between their husbands .  such a deceitful dog !  Soon after this Miss Bates came in , and Emma could not help being diverted by the perplexity of her first answer to herself , resulting , she supposed , from doubt of what might be said , and impatience to say every thing .  But this is no excuse for their concealing it from us . ''  Are you acquainted with Mr. Robert Ferrars ?  The more I think of it , the more probable it appears .  I am very little disposed to grant a tenant of Kellynch Hall any extraordinary favour , I assure you , be he sailor or soldier . ''  He got as near as he could to thanking her for Miss Taylor 's merits , without seeming quite to forget that in the common course of things it was to be rather supposed that Miss Taylor had formed Miss Woodhouse 's character , than Miss Woodhouse Miss Taylor 's .  CHAPTER IV  Pray , when are they to be married ? ''  I wanted to keep it from Jane 's knowledge ; but , unluckily , I had mentioned it before I was aware . ''  There is great fear , great caution , great resolution somewhere. -- She is _not_ to be with the _Dixons_ .  `` You get upon delicate subjects , Emma , '' said Mrs. Weston smiling ; `` remember that I am here. -- Mr .  Say `No , ' if it is to be said . ''  Dixon is very musical , is he ?  Louisa certainly put more forward for his notice than her sister .  Marianne had now been brought by degrees , so much into the habit of going out every day , that it was become a matter of indifference to her , whether she went or not : and she prepared quietly and mechanically for every evening 's engagement , though without expecting the smallest amusement from any , and very often without knowing , till the last moment , where it was to take her .  `` Aha , youngster , what are you doing in my sky ? ''  Nobody doubts her right to have precedence of mamma , but it would be more becoming in her not to be always insisting on it .  `` You are mistaken , Elinor , '' said she warmly , `` in supposing I know very little of Willoughby .  And the other king 's eyes grew sad and stern .  Colonel Brandon , the friend of Sir John , seemed no more adapted by resemblance of manner to be his friend , than Lady Middleton was to be his wife , or Mrs. Jennings to be Lady Middleton 's mother .  He whistled .  `` I am delighted with the plan , '' she cried , `` it is exactly what I could wish .  `` Do n't blow me so , Wind , '' he cried , `` let me down ! ''  And how much may be said in her situation for even that error ! ''  `` I wish , '' said Henrietta , very well pleased with her companion , `` I wish Lady Russell lived at Uppercross , and were intimate with Dr Shirley .  Anne looked down to hide her smile .  `` Oh !  `` As to the circumstances of her birth , though in a legal sense she may be called Nobody , it will not hold in common sense .  Just then , a Skylark fluttered to the ground and eagerly darted his beak at the Diamond .  Lord bless me !  How could it be ?  My mother taught me underneath a tree , And , sitting down before the heat of day , She took me on her lap and kissed me , And , pointed to the east , began to say : `` Look on the rising sun : there God does live , And gives His light , and gives His heat away , And flowers and trees and beasts and men receive Comfort in morning , joy in the noonday .  And ( raising his voice still more ) I do not see why Miss Fairfax should not be mentioned too .  And the shepherd-boy lost all his sheep .  She is reserved , more reserved , I think , than she used to be -- And I love an open temper .  He had n't seen Buster Bear , and he did n't know that he or any one else was anywhere near .  She managed the recital , as she hoped , with address ; prepared her anxious listener with caution ; related simply and honestly the chief points on which Willoughby grounded his apology ; did justice to his repentance , and softened only his protestations of present regard .  Farmer Brown 's boy is n't afraid of any one who lives in the Green Forest or on the Green Meadows or in the Smiling Pool , and you know it .  She boldly acknowledged herself flattered , and continued her enquiries .  He is n't particular what kind of berries .  Nobody supposes that you were his first inducement .  `` But you , yourself , brought Mrs Harville , her sister , her cousin , and three children , round from Portsmouth to Plymouth .  I hope you 'll find it very tender ! ''  I have a great curiosity to know what Mr Elliot was as a very young man .  We shall enjoy him completely ; every thing has turned out exactly as we could wish . ''  Mr Elliot , and his friends in Marlborough Buildings , were talked of the whole evening .  And thus ended their discourse .  It has been involuntary , and I will not encourage it .  But perhaps you will say , these were all written by men . ''  On Christmas eve , the shoemaker cleaned his bench , and on it , instead of leather , he laid the two sets of gay little fairy-clothes .  `` Your gallantry is really unanswerable .  They each felt his sorrows , and their own obligations , and Marianne , by general consent , was to be the reward of all .  But how shall I do ?  Now you know the secret of the world worshipping ME . ''  Suddenly he saw a big yellow light at the very edge of the sky .  They are all remarkably clever ; and they have so many pretty ways .  He recommended it for all the children , but particularly for the weakness in little Bella 's throat , -- both sea air and bathing . ''  But it is very remarkable that she should always hear Jane better than she does me .  His mother explained to him her liberal designs , in case of his marrying Miss Morton ; told him she would settle on him the Norfolk estate , which , clear of land-tax , brings in a good thousand a-year ; offered even , when matters grew desperate , to make it twelve hundred ; and in opposition to this , if he still persisted in this low connection , represented to him the certain penury that must attend the match .  She was a widow and poor .  She and Mary were actually setting forward for the Great House , where , as she afterwards learnt , they must inevitably have found him , when they were stopped by the eldest boy 's being at that moment brought home in consequence of a bad fall .  Harriet , tempted by every thing and swayed by half a word , was always very long at a purchase ; and while she was still hanging over muslins and changing her mind , Emma went to the door for amusement. -- Much could not be hoped from the traffic of even the busiest part of Highbury ; -- Mr. Perry walking hastily by , Mr. William Cox letting himself in at the office-door , Mr. Cole 's carriage-horses returning from exercise , or a stray letter-boy on an obstinate mule , were the liveliest objects she could presume to expect ; and when her eyes fell only on the butcher with his tray , a tidy old woman travelling homewards from shop with her full basket , two curs quarrelling over a dirty bone , and a string of dawdling children round the baker 's little bow-window eyeing the gingerbread , she knew she had no reason to complain , and was amused enough ; quite enough still to stand at the door .  Perfect happiness , even in memory , is not common ; and there were two points on which she was not quite easy .  Elinor placed all that was astonishing in this way of acting to his mother 's account ; and it was happy for her that he had a mother whose character was so imperfectly known to her , as to be the general excuse for every thing strange on the part of her son .  `` Your promise makes me easy .  `` To have resisted such attractions , to have withstood such tenderness ! -- Is there a man on earth who could have done it ? -- Yes , I found myself , by insensible degrees , sincerely fond of her ; and the happiest hours of my life were what I spent with her when I felt my intentions were strictly honourable , and my feelings blameless .  -- cried Elinor , more and more at a loss to understand what he would be at .  `` Yes ; which I objected to , but he would not regard .  He liked very much to have his friends come and see him ; and from various united causes , from his long residence at Hartfield , and his good nature , from his fortune , his house , and his daughter , he could command the visits of his own little circle , in a great measure , as he liked .  Anne Elliot , so young ; known to so few , to be snatched off by a stranger without alliance or fortune ; or rather sunk by him into a state of most wearing , anxious , youth-killing dependence !  There were many things to be taken into the account .  `` Upon my word it would , '' replied Mary .  I happened to look up as I went by the chaise , and so I see directly it was the youngest Miss Steele ; so I took off my hat , and she knew me and called to me , and inquired after you , ma'am , and the young ladies , especially Miss Marianne , and bid me I should give her compliments and Mr. Ferrars 's , their best compliments and service , and how sorry they was they had not time to come on and see you , but they was in a great hurry to go forwards , for they was going further down for a little while , but howsever , when they come back , they 'd make sure to come and see you . ''  `` I was hammering at the reputation of your courtiers , who found fault simply because they were jealous , '' said the artist .  if you were to see what a headache she has .  `` I believe she does .  Mr. Knightley can not stop .  Her form , though not so correct as her sister 's , in having the advantage of height , was more striking ; and her face was so lovely , that when in the common cant of praise , she was called a beautiful girl , truth was less violently outraged than usually happens .  Mr. Elton was the only one whose assistance she asked .  She will not even listen to your questions .  `` Ah !  `` Take me to yourselves ; I will give my life for you ! ''  And says ; Thou mother of my children , I have loved thee And I have given thee a crown that none can take away .  `` We are going to get more weeds than we want on this fresh soil , and the more the ground is broken , the fewer there will be . ''  I am monstrous glad of it , for then I shall have her for a neighbour you know . ''  Jove saw how stupid they were , and sent a king who could not harm them : he tossed a big log into the middle of the pond .  One good thing was immediately brought to a certainty by this removal , -- the ball at the Crown .  Sammy knew who it was : it was Buster Bear , and he was going berrying .  Delaford is a nice place , I can tell you ; exactly what I call a nice old fashioned place , full of comforts and conveniences ; quite shut in with great garden walls that are covered with the best fruit-trees in the country ; and such a mulberry tree in one corner !  But every circumstance that could embitter such an evil seemed uniting to heighten the misery of Marianne in a final separation from Willoughby -- in an immediate and irreconcilable rupture with him .  `` That bear has cheated me out of that berry pie my mother promised me . ''  Do you imagine Colonel Campbell knows the business to be going forward just at this time ? -- Do you imagine it to be the consequence of an immediate commission from him , or that he may have sent only a general direction , an order indefinite as to time , to depend upon contingencies and conveniences ? ''  `` Depend upon it , Mrs. Churchill does every thing that any other fine lady ever did .  but her lips were closed .  he shouted , and sailed the trundle-bed boat straight at them .  Maybe you would like to hear a poem she wrote about it , when she was only fourteen years old .  We will not be parted .  `` She has taken it into her head that Enscombe is too cold for her .  Not the smallest suspicion , therefore , had ever occurred to prepare him for what followed ; -- and when at last it burst on him in a letter from Lucy herself , he had been for some time , he believed , half stupified between the wonder , the horror , and the joy of such a deliverance .  Mrs Smith 's enjoyments were not spoiled by this improvement of income , with some improvement of health , and the acquisition of such friends to be often with , for her cheerfulness and mental alacrity did not fail her ; and while these prime supplies of good remained , she might have bid defiance even to greater accessions of worldly prosperity .  `` It is Goliath , of Gath , champion of the Philistines , '' said the soldiers about .  Elinor wanted very much to know , though she did not chuse to ask , whether Edward was then in town ; but nothing would have induced Fanny voluntarily to mention his name before her , till able to tell her that his marriage with Miss Morton was resolved on , or till her husband 's expectations on Colonel Brandon were answered ; because she believed them still so very much attached to each other , that they could not be too sedulously divided in word and deed on every occasion .  Doubt is fled , and clouds of reason , Dark disputes and artful teazing .  One can not resolve upon them in a hurry .  Sixty-five miles farther than from Maple Grove to London .  `` I either depend more upon Emma 's good sense than you do , or am more anxious for her present comfort ; for I can not lament the acquaintance .  From the expense of the child , however , he was soon relieved .  The little boy could never get enough ; so for this he was called `` Little Jack Rollaround . ''  I have really for some time past , for at least these three months , cared nothing about him .  `` I hope , Marianne , '' continued Elinor , `` you do not consider him as deficient in general taste .  `` Let 's all go together and tell Buster Bear how much obliged we are for what he has done , '' proposed Jerry Muskrat .  More is avowedly due to _her_ .  `` What are you thinking about , my darling ? ''  `` He promised to come to me as soon as he could disengage himself from Knightley ; but he and Knightley are shut up together in deep consultation. -- Mr .  I believe I was half an hour this morning shut up with my housekeeper . ''  Without scruple -- without apology -- without much apparent diffidence , Mr. Elton , the lover of Harriet , was professing himself _her_ lover .  Here Mrs. Jennings ceased , and as Elinor had had time enough to collect her thoughts , she was able to give such an answer , and make such observations , as the subject might naturally be supposed to produce .  Maple Grove has given me a thorough disgust to people of that sort ; for there is a family in that neighbourhood who are such an annoyance to my brother and sister from the airs they give themselves !  They were only asked , she was sure , because Lady Dalrymple being kept at home by a bad cold , was glad to make use of the relationship which had been so pressed on her ; and she declined on her own account with great alacrity -- '' She was engaged to spend the evening with an old schoolfellow . ''  To Anne herself it was most distressing to see Mr Elliot enter the room ; and quite painful to have him approach and speak to her .  She tried to dissuade Mary from going , but in vain ; and that being the case , thought it best to accept the Miss Musgroves ' much more cordial invitation to herself to go likewise , as she might be useful in turning back with her sister , and lessening the interference in any plan of their own .  .  It need not detain us long .  At last the rider kicked him , as well as beat him , and at that the donkey felt that he had had enough .  `` I rather hope to satisfy you both , '' said Emma , `` for I shall do all in my power to make them happy , which will be enough for Isabella ; and happiness must preclude false indulgence and physic . ''  Mrs. Dashwood seemed actually working for her , herself ; cherishing all her hopes , and promoting all her views !  In hastily forming and giving his opinion of other people , in sacrificing general politeness to the enjoyment of undivided attention where his heart was engaged , and in slighting too easily the forms of worldly propriety , he displayed a want of caution which Elinor could not approve , in spite of all that he and Marianne could say in its support .  He will suffer enough in them . ''  A boyish scheme , indeed ! -- I can not comprehend a man 's wishing to give a woman any proof of affection which he knows she would rather dispense with ; and he did know that she would have prevented the instrument 's coming if she could . ''  Most of them were afraid of Buster , very much afraid of him , because he was so big and strong .  I hoped I was perfectly equal to any sacrifice of that description .  She could not enter the house again , could not be in the same room to which she had with such vain artifice retreated three months ago , to lace up her boot , without _recollecting_ .  it does happen very often , I assure you ; but my sister makes nothing of it ; she would as lieve be tossed out as not . ''  I hope he will be more agreeable now .  I never saw any thing equal to the comfort and style -- Candles everywhere. -- I was telling you of your grandmama , Jane , -- There was a little disappointment. -- The baked apples and biscuits , excellent in their way , you know ; but there was a delicate fricassee of sweetbread and some asparagus brought in at first , and good Mr. Woodhouse , not thinking the asparagus quite boiled enough , sent it all out again .  that is quite surprising , for we have had a vast deal of rain here .  I can not produce written proof again , but I can give as authentic oral testimony as you can desire , of what he is now wanting , and what he is now doing .  At the jerk , up came the Whale out of the water .  `` I 'm not through with you either , Peter Rabbit ! ''  They found Mrs Musgrove and her daughter within , and by themselves , and Anne had the kindest welcome from each .  Dear Jane , how shall we ever recollect half the dishes for grandmama ?  `` Many of the dicotyledonous plants look alike at the beginning , '' he said , with a little drawl on the big word .  There is not a stone laid of Fanny 's green-house , and nothing but the plan of the flower-garden marked out . ''  People came from all over the world to see the crystal palace and the wonderful garden and the great forest ; but when they went home and wrote books about these things they always wrote , `` But the Nightingale is the best of all . ''  She was safely down , and instantly , to show her enjoyment , ran up the steps to be jumped down again .  But tomorrow I think I shall certainly be able to call in Berkeley Street , and be introduced to your friend Mrs. Jennings .  I took him as he was sleeping on the sofa , and it is as strong a likeness of his cockade as you would wish to see .  how troublesome they are sometimes .  `` I certainly must , '' said she .  The party , like other musical parties , comprehended a great many people who had real taste for the performance , and a great many more who had none at all ; and the performers themselves were , as usual , in their own estimation , and that of their immediate friends , the first private performers in England .  She loved Anne better than she loved her own abilities ; and when the awkwardness of the beginning was over , found little hardship in attaching herself as a mother to the man who was securing the happiness of her other child .  `` She is walking , I believe . ''  If any thing could be more , where all was most , she was more reserved on the subject of Weymouth and the Dixons than any thing .  I could think of you only as one who had yielded , who had given me up , who had been influenced by any one rather than by me .  I have had a little knowledge of their methods of doing business ; and I am free to confess that they have very liberal notions , and are as likely to make desirable tenants as any set of people one should meet with .  Two delighful twilight walks on the third and fourth evenings of her being there , not merely on the dry gravel of the shrubbery , but all over the grounds , and especially in the most distant parts of them , where there was something more of wildness than in the rest , where the trees were the oldest , and the grass was the longest and wettest , had -- assisted by the still greater imprudence of sitting in her wet shoes and stockings -- given Marianne a cold so violent as , though for a day or two trifled with or denied , would force itself by increasing ailments on the concern of every body , and the notice of herself .  `` There is nothing to be compared to it .  Men thought of God , and felt His blessing on them .  And I really believe he HAS the most delicate conscience in the world ; the most scrupulous in performing every engagement , however minute , and however it may make against his interest or pleasure .  -- And to this day , I do believe , she knows not whether it was his present or his daughter 's . ''  She must know as well as her father , how acceptable an instrument would be ; and perhaps the mode of it , the mystery , the surprize , is more like a young woman 's scheme than an elderly man 's .  But , then , if Mrs. Dashwood should live fifteen years we shall be completely taken in . ''  Then he went on to another , and this was no better .  `` Now , my dear , I bring you something that I am sure will do you good . ''  Here and there , human nature may be great in times of trial ; but generally speaking , it is its weakness and not its strength that appears in a sick chamber : it is selfishness and impatience rather than generosity and fortitude , that one hears of .  She must learn to feel that she had been mistaken with regard to both ; that she had been unfairly influenced by appearances in each ; that because Captain Wentworth 's manners had not suited her own ideas , she had been too quick in suspecting them to indicate a character of dangerous impetuosity ; and that because Mr Elliot 's manners had precisely pleased her in their propriety and correctness , their general politeness and suavity , she had been too quick in receiving them as the certain result of the most correct opinions and well-regulated mind .  But mama did not think the match good enough for me , otherwise Sir John would have mentioned it to the Colonel , and we should have been married immediately . ''  `Elegance , sweetness , beauty . '  she said , smoothing his soft , honey-coloured hair .  Goddard 's . ''  said she , beginning again when they were all in the street .  `` Oh !  `` Do n't pretend to deny it , because you know it is what every body talks of .  And I ca n't pull her out .  `` Mr. Knightley and Jane Fairfax ! ''  Elinor , who did justice to Mrs. Jennings 's kindness , though its effusions were often distressing , and sometimes almost ridiculous , made her those acknowledgments , and returned her those civilities , which her sister could not make or return for herself .  `` Well , '' said he , `` we have brought you some strangers .  I hope whenever poor Isabella 's little ones have the measles , she will send for Perry . ''  And that was all that happened , that day .  She stopt to blush and laugh at her own relapse , and then resumed a more serious , more dispiriting cogitation upon what had been , and might be , and must be .  And how he had been so worried by what passed , that as soon as he had went away from his mother 's house , he had got upon his horse , and rid into the country , some where or other ; and how he had stayed about at an inn all Thursday and Friday , on purpose to get the better of it .  asked Mr. Knightley .  There he sat down and beat the big drum .  In that , if in any thing , we may find an explanation . ''  `` How pretty !  `` Did you kill the Otter 's babies ? ''  `` If he is so afraid of me , I guess I need n't be afraid of him , '' said he .  `` Oh !  Now , it would be really having Frank in their neighbourhood .  Now , quite near to the trees had stood an Angel , who had heard all that had passed .  `` Would you make a place for me where I can hide ? ''  The prospect in front was more extensive ; it commanded the whole of the valley , and reached into the country beyond .  She would have given the world to be able to speak -- and to make them understand that she hoped no coolness , no slight , would appear in their behaviour to him ; -- but she had no utterance , and was obliged to leave all to their own discretion .  `` And his manners , the Colonel 's manners are not only more pleasing to me than Willoughby 's ever were , but they are of a kind I well know to be more solidly attaching to Marianne .  `` If it depended only on my inclination , ma'am , the party at home ( excepting on Mary 's account ) would not be the smallest impediment .  Over the whole country-side , as far as the rain fell , a lovely rainbow sprang its arch , and all the brightest rays of heaven made its colours ; it was the last greeting of a love so great that it sacrificed itself .  And on Mrs Musgrove 's side , it was , `` I make a rule of never interfering in any of my daughter-in-law 's concerns , for I know it would not do ; but I shall tell you , Miss Anne , because you may be able to set things to rights , that I have no very good opinion of Mrs Charles 's nursery-maid : I hear strange stories of her ; she is always upon the gad ; and from my own knowledge , I can declare , she is such a fine-dressing lady , that she is enough to ruin any servants she comes near .  He would have had a wife of whose temper he could make no complaint , but he would have been always necessitous -- always poor ; and probably would soon have learned to rank the innumerable comforts of a clear estate and good income as of far more importance , even to domestic happiness , than the mere temper of a wife . ''  Chatterer was in the worst kind of trouble , and there was no one to blame but himself .  It is impossible to express our surprize .  I believe you equal to every important exertion , and to every domestic forbearance , so long as -- if I may be allowed the expression -- so long as you have an object .  Even then , I was not such a fool as not to mean to be reconciled in time ; but I was the injured person , injured by her coldness , and I went away determined that she should make the first advances. -- I shall always congratulate myself that you were not of the Box Hill party .  It was Mary 's hope and belief that he had received a positive dismissal from Henrietta , and her husband lived under the constant dependence of seeing him to-morrow .  Mr. Knightley had spoken prophetically , when he once said , `` Emma , you have been no friend to Harriet Smith . ''  `` My dear Mrs .  Farmer Brown 's boy had just stepped out from behind one side of a little hemlock-tree and Buster Bear had just stepped out from behind the opposite side of the little hemlock-tree and neither had known that the other was anywhere near .  Mrs. Weston was afraid of draughts for the young people in that passage ; and neither Emma nor the gentlemen could tolerate the prospect of being miserably crowded at supper .  Still the crab went backward .  At present , there was nothing to be done for Harriet ; good wishes for the future were all that could yet be possible on Emma 's side .  CHAPTER XIV  ( with some elevation ) I was thinking of a much more precious circumstance -- of Mr. Knightley 's coming and asking me to dance , when Mr. Elton would not stand up with me ; and when there was no other partner in the room .  During all this time he was evidently struggling for composure .  The little Half-Chick cried out , -- `` Water , do n't drown me !  Our neighbourhood can not spare such a pleasant family .  splash !  I am sure if I had had a notion of it , I would not have joked her about it for all my money .  Isabella and Emma , I think , do write very much alike .  Oh !  `` Yes . ''  As for Colonel Brandon , she was not only ready to worship him as a saint , but was moreover truly anxious that he should be treated as one in all worldly concerns ; anxious that his tithes should be raised to the utmost ; and scarcely resolved to avail herself , at Delaford , as far as she possibly could , of his servants , his carriage , his cows , and his poultry .  `` But what are you in doubt of ?  Then changing from a frown to a smile -- '' No , do not tell me -- I do not want to know what you mean. -- Where is my father ? -- When are we to begin dancing ? ''  Elinor was alternately diverted and pained ; but Marianne persevered , and saw every night in the brightness of the fire , and every morning in the appearance of the atmosphere , the certain symptoms of approaching frost .  Elinor could NOT remember it ; -- but her mother , without waiting for her assent , continued ,  She proved to be the daughter of a tradesman , rich enough to afford her the comfortable maintenance which had ever been hers , and decent enough to have always wished for concealment. -- Such was the blood of gentility which Emma had formerly been so ready to vouch for ! -- It was likely to be as untainted , perhaps , as the blood of many a gentleman : but what a connexion had she been preparing for Mr. Knightley -- or for the Churchills -- or even for Mr .  No , you would not guess , from his way of writing , that he had ever thought of this Miss ( what 's her name ? )  He knows I have a thorough regard for him and all his family , and , I believe , considers me as one of his best friends .  He is a most amiable , charming young man , I believe .  `` What felicity it is to hear a tune again which _has_ made one happy ! -- If I mistake not that was danced at Weymouth . ''  `` So obliging of you !  He was terribly angry .  I could not have answered it to my conscience to let it fall into any other hands .  She put it into her hands as she spoke ; and when Elinor saw the painting , whatever other doubts her fear of a too hasty decision , or her wish of detecting falsehood might suffer to linger in her mind , she could have none of its being Edward 's face .  She had nothing to wish otherwise , but that the days did not pass so swiftly .  Does he know that I am in Bath ? ''  They had been thrown together several weeks ; they had been living in the same small family party : since Henrietta 's coming away , they must have been depending almost entirely on each other , and Louisa , just recovering from illness , had been in an interesting state , and Captain Benwick was not inconsolable .  CHAPTER VIII  `` It must be something extraordinary that could make Colonel Brandon leave my breakfast table so suddenly . ''  `` So do I , Anne , '' said Charles .  Do not you agree with me , that it is the best thing he could do , both for himself and Mrs Shirley ?  Captain Harville , who had in truth been hearing none of it , now left his seat , and moved to a window , and Anne seeming to watch him , though it was from thorough absence of mind , became gradually sensible that he was inviting her to join him where he stood .  Would not Mr. Knightley shew them the gardens -- all the gardens ? -- She wished to see the whole extent . ''  Poor Mr. Woodhouse little suspected what was plotting against him in the breast of that man whom he was so cordially welcoming , and so anxiously hoping might not have taken cold from his ride. -- Could he have seen the heart , he would have cared very little for the lungs ; but without the most distant imagination of the impending evil , without the slightest perception of any thing extraordinary in the looks or ways of either , he repeated to them very comfortably all the articles of news he had received from Mr. Perry , and talked on with much self-contentment , totally unsuspicious of what they could have told him in return .  And he bade them begin at once to grind salt , for of this he had very scanty store .  But , if they rush dreadful , The angels , most heedful , Receive each mild spirit , New worlds to inherit .  `` Nay , '' cried Mrs. Jennings , `` I am sure I shall be monstrous glad of Miss Marianne 's company , whether Miss Dashwood will go or not , only the more the merrier say I , and I thought it would be more comfortable for them to be together ; because , if they got tired of me , they might talk to one another , and laugh at my old ways behind my back .  After that , I suppose , I WAS wrong in remaining so much in Sussex , and the arguments with which I reconciled myself to the expediency of it , were no better than these : -- The danger is my own ; I am doing no injury to anybody but myself . ''  I assured him that I could not .  Anne herself would have found the mortifications of it more than she foresaw , and to Sir Walter 's feelings they must have been dreadful .  Had his forty years of prayer been a terrible mistake , and was his soul indeed like a clown , fooling in the market-place ?  I will tell you exactly what I think . ''  She was not yet quite able to see him and his charming happy wife together , without feeling uncomfortable .  After an interval of some minutes , however , he began with ,  ( Imitate dragging something along the ground . )  said he ; so I just mentioned .  At last he did persuade him , however , and they walked on together .  `` Perfect ! ''  In a little while the housework was going smoothly , and Elsa could laugh and sing again .  `` You take up an idea , Mrs. Weston , and run away with it ; as you have many a time reproached me with doing .  Mr. Dashwood 's strains were more solemn .  She was divided from Captain Wentworth .  As Harriet now lived , the Martins could not get at her , without seeking her , where hitherto they had wanted either the courage or the condescension to seek her ; for since her refusal of the brother , the sisters never had been at Mrs. Goddard 's ; and a twelvemonth might pass without their being thrown together again , with any necessity , or even any power of speech .  `` Here is his answer , if you like to see it . ''  It was horrible to Emma to think how it must sink him in the general opinion , to foresee the smiles , the sneers , the merriment it would prompt at his expense ; the mortification and disdain of his brother , the thousand inconveniences to himself. -- Could it be ? -- No ; it was impossible .  Mrs. Dashwood had never been so much pleased with any young women in her life , as she was with them ; had given each of them a needle book made by some emigrant ; called Lucy by her Christian name ; and did not know whether she should ever be able to part with them .  cried Marianne in the wildest anxiety .  `` The rear right foot is as it should be , now , '' said a third , `` and it adds so much to the beauty of the whole ! ''  He felt the going away almost too much to speak of it .  Vanity working on a weak head , produces every sort of mischief .  Mrs. Ferrars , not aware of their being Elinor 's work , particularly requested to look at them ; and after they had received gratifying testimony of Lady Middletons 's approbation , Fanny presented them to her mother , considerately informing her , at the same time , that they were done by Miss Dashwood .  Yet so miserably had he conducted himself , that though she was at this present time ( the summer of 1814 ) wearing black ribbons for his wife , she could not admit him to be worth thinking of again .  He is the curate of the parish I dare say . ''  Believe them to be stronger than I have declared ; believe them , in short , to be such as his merit , and the suspicion -- the hope of his affection for me may warrant , without imprudence or folly .  Then he walked over to a big pine-tree , stood up on his hind legs , reached as high up on the trunk of the tree as he could , and scratched the bark with his great claws .  Even _your_ satisfaction I made sure of .  Let her name her own supper , and go to bed .  Three days had passed without his coming once to Uppercross ; a most decided change .  He promised to call again in the course of three or four hours , and left both the patient and her anxious attendant more composed than he had found them .  cried Marianne , indignantly .  `` My dearest child , '' said her mother , laughing , `` at this rate you must be in continual terror of MY decay ; and it must seem to you a miracle that my life has been extended to the advanced age of forty . ''  When I found he was really going to his friends at Thornberry Park for the whole day to-morrow , I had compassion on him . ''  THAT I will never consent to .  You have only knowledge enough of the language to translate at sight these inverted , transposed , curtailed Italian lines , into clear , comprehensible , elegant English .  I should be unwilling , I own , to live in any other part of the town ; -- there is hardly any other that I could be satisfied to have my children in : but _we_ are so remarkably airy ! -- Mr .  Afterward I told the story to a good many children , at one time or another , and it gradually took the shape it has here .  Presently Frode came into the mill to see that the new servants were performing their task diligently .  `` I dare say , '' replied Mrs. Weston , smiling , `` that I thought so _then_ ; -- but since we have parted , I can never remember Emma 's omitting to do any thing I wished . ''  `` She thinks herself wrong , then , for having consented to a private engagement ? ''  In half a minute they were together .  Do n't pretend to defend him .  XIII FARMER BROWN 'S BOY AND BUSTER BEAR MEET If you should meet with Buster Bear While walking through the wood , What would you do ?  Perhaps Fanny thought for a moment that her mother had been quite rude enough , -- for , colouring a little , she immediately said ,  `` Are you not king ? ''  It was a dainty creature , gentle-looking , and finely built , and it was saddled and bridled .  `` I 'll do that , indeed , '' said the tailor , `` and welcome . ''  I would just waste my time .  That she was , to all appearance , in the last stage of a consumption , was -- yes , in such a situation it was my greatest comfort .  I can support her myself .  He was gone ; he had disappeared , she felt a moment 's regret .  It spoke such perfect amity. -- He left them immediately afterwards -- gone in a moment .  With the exception of this little blot , Emma found that his visit hitherto had given her friend only good ideas of him .  He was considering her as the source of all the happiness they offered .  `` It was nearly three years after this unhappy period before I returned to England .  She could not bear to see him suffering , to know him fancying himself neglected ; and though her understanding almost acquiesced in the assurance of both the Mr. Knightleys , that when once the event were over , his distress would be soon over too , she hesitated -- she could not proceed .  could not have supposed any thing ! -- Such elegance and profusion ! -- I have seen nothing like it since -- Well , where shall we sit ?  `` I am sure Lady Russell would like him .  Her pardon was duly begged at the close of the song , and every thing usual followed .  It was a comical little whistle of chagrin as he realized that he had nothing in which to put more berries , even if he picked them .  I know nothing of the picturesque . ''  They released the old white garraun then , and the old white garraun , the fox , the lion , and the army of Dublin pursued the tailor and his wife , and it was not long before they came up with them .  Miss Dashwood , do you think people make love when any body else is by ?  that 's a very good thought , very good , indeed .  `` My dear Harriet , you must not refine too much upon this charade. -- You will betray your feelings improperly , if you are too conscious and too quick , and appear to affix more meaning , or even quite all the meaning which may be affixed to it .  And as for Mrs. Hodges , Wright holds her very cheap indeed. -- She promised Wright a receipt , and never sent it . ''  He would feel himself in the right ; and the declaration -- made , of course , as a man of sense would make it , in a proper manner -- would do him more good , raise him higher , fix his interest stronger with the people he depended on , than all that a line of shifts and expedients can ever do .  It must have been about the same time that he became known to my father and sister .  When the Emperor woke up , he felt a terrible weight on his chest .  `` BEAU -- TY ! ''  Captain Wentworth believed it impossible for man to be more attached to woman than poor Benwick had been to Fanny Harville , or to be more deeply afflicted under the dreadful change .  That 's one of the ladies in the Irish car party , not at all like her. -- Well , I declare -- ''  In one respect he is the object of my envy . ''  cried Marianne , stepping hastily forward .  Her mind returned to Mrs. Elton 's offences , and long , very long , did they occupy her .  Had he said any thing to bear a different construction , I should not have believed him . ''  I am in very good anchorage here , '' ( smiling at Anne , ) `` well supplied , and want for nothing .  You sink your voice , but I can distinguish the tones of that voice when they would be lost on others .  dear Mrs Croft , '' cried Mrs Musgrove , unable to let her finish her speech , `` there is nothing I so abominate for young people as a long engagement .  There were but few who could be so classed ; and it was not all of them that were attainable .  No sooner had she touched the bread board than the little fairies began to work : they measured the flour , mixed the bread , kneaded the loaves , and set them to rise , quicker than you could wink ; and when the bread was done , it was as nice as you could wish .  Your countenance perfectly informs me that you were in company last night with the person whom you think the most agreeable in the world , the person who interests you at this present time more than all the rest of the world put together . ''  Lucy was all exultation on being so honorably distinguished ; and Miss Steele wanted only to be teazed about Dr. Davies to be perfectly happy .  `` Who is there ? ''  Was not it Mrs Speed , as usual , or the maid ?  We ought to be acquainted with Enscombe , and with Mrs. Churchill 's temper , before we pretend to decide upon what her nephew can do .  Anne drew a little back , while the others received his compliments , and her sister his apologies for calling at so unusual an hour , but `` he could not be so near without wishing to know that neither she nor her friend had taken cold the day before , '' & c. & c ; which was all as politely done , and as politely taken , as possible , but her part must follow then .  No , Mr. Knightley , do not foretell vexation from that quarter . ''  I was reading it to Mrs. Cole , and since she went away , I was reading it again to my mother , for it is such a pleasure to her -- a letter from Jane -- that she can never hear it often enough ; so I knew it could not be far off , and here it is , only just under my huswife -- and since you are so kind as to wish to hear what she says ; -- but , first of all , I really must , in justice to Jane , apologise for her writing so short a letter -- only two pages you see -- hardly two -- and in general she fills the whole paper and crosses half .  He was at that time a very young man , just engaged in the study of the law ; and Elizabeth found him extremely agreeable , and every plan in his favour was confirmed .  Such a thought would never enter either Sir John or Lady Middleton 's head ; and therefore very little leisure was ever given for a general chat , and none at all for particular discourse .  Her kindness is not sympathy ; her good-nature is not tenderness .  Who makes you their confidant ? ''  `` You forget how much she belongs to Highbury .  The ladies knew better how to allay it .  This is what I believe to have happened .  I wonder where that boat was built ! ''  As she ceased , the entrance door opened again , and the very party appeared for whom they were waiting .  It is a beautiful song ; I wish we knew the music that David made for it , but we only know his words .  That is the kind of thing that happens to people who lie : even when they tell the truth no one believes them .  snapped Blacky the Crow .  The whole was tied up for the benefit of this child , who , in occasional visits with his father and mother at Norland , had so far gained on the affections of his uncle , by such attractions as are by no means unusual in children of two or three years old ; an imperfect articulation , an earnest desire of having his own way , many cunning tricks , and a great deal of noise , as to outweigh all the value of all the attention which , for years , he had received from his niece and her daughters .  Other opportunities of making her observations could not fail to occur .  `` I can not , I can not , '' cried Marianne ; `` leave me , leave me , if I distress you ; leave me , hate me , forget me !  He and Mary had been persuaded to go early to their inn last night .  Nay , it would be too hard upon you , if it were otherwise .  The cold , however , was severe ; and by the time the second carriage was in motion , a few flakes of snow were finding their way down , and the sky had the appearance of being so overcharged as to want only a milder air to produce a very white world in a very short time .  `` I wish , '' said Margaret , striking out a novel thought , `` that somebody would give us all a large fortune apiece ! ''  Cluck !  But I must be more in want of a friend , or an agreeable companion , than I have yet been , to take the trouble of conquering any body 's reserve to procure one .  `` Why , the cage he was in , '' said the Brahmin .  Yet he would speak .  `` Perhaps you may now begin to regret that you spent one whole day , out of so few , in having your hair cut . ''  Mrs Clay has been using it at my recommendation , and you see what it has done for her .  This , Harriet , is an alliance which can never raise a blush in either of us . ''  For several days the sound of hammering came steadily from behind the enclosure .  I wish I had ten good fairies to help me ! ''  `` I see Mr. Ferrars myself , ma'am , this morning in Exeter , and his lady too , Miss Steele as was .  A little beauty , and a few smiles , and a few compliments to the navy , and I am a lost man .  I always forgot . ''  All I have ever attempted to influence has been the behaviour .  The one child saved by the king 's own daughter was the very one the king would most have wanted to kill , if he had known .  She is an excellent housemaid , and works very well at her needle .  For their own comfort they would much rather have remained , at least all the morning , in Mrs. Jennings 's house ; but it was not a thing to be urged against the wishes of everybody .  `` Pretty !  And then , if I could convey to you the glow of his soul when he does see them again ; when , coming back after a twelvemonth 's absence , perhaps , and obliged to put into another port , he calculates how soon it be possible to get them there , pretending to deceive himself , and saying , `They can not be here till such a day , ' but all the while hoping for them twelve hours sooner , and seeing them arrive at last , as if Heaven had given them wings , by many hours sooner still !  Few women could think more of their personal appearance than he did , nor could the valet of any new made lord be more delighted with the place he held in society .  We all like a play .  It was quite out of the benevolence of her heart , that she had asked these young women to her house ; merely because she thought they deserved some attention , were harmless , well-behaved girls , and would be pleasant companions ; for otherwise we both wished very much to have invited you and Marianne to be with us , while your kind friend there , was attending her daughter .  Lady Elliott was delighted with the thought .  Your brother has gained my affections entirely , and as we could not live without one another , we are just returned from the altar , and are now on our way to Dawlish for a few weeks , which place your dear brother has great curiosity to see , but thought I would first trouble you with these few lines , and shall always remain ,  THE LITTLE RED HEN The little Red Hen was in the farmyard with her chickens , when she found a grain of wheat .  `` Do n't you find it colder than it was in the morning , Elinor ?  `` Colonel Brandon seems a man of great worth and respectability .  `` Yes , '' said Mr. John Knightley presently , with some slyness , `` he seems to have a great deal of good-will towards you . ''  There is health , not merely in her bloom , but in her air , her head , her glance .  When the darkness of the night was come , he saw the three giants arriving , and they began throwing down the court until they arrived at the place where the tailor was in hiding up above , and one of them struck a blow with his sledge on the place where he was .  Another circumstance very essential for her to know , was how long he meant to be in Bath ; he had not mentioned it , or she could not recollect it .  She had been taken to Charmouth too , and she had bathed , and she had gone to church , and there were a great many more people to look at in the church at Lyme than at Uppercross ; and all this , joined to the sense of being so very useful , had made really an agreeable fortnight .  `` I am so glad to see you ! ''  Where it was he did n't know , so he looked everywhere .  But , I confess , it would give me great pleasure to call Colonel Brandon brother .  Such , she believed , were his words ; but scarcely had she received their sound , than her attention was caught by other sounds immediately behind her , which rendered every thing else trivial .  We never can expect to prove any thing upon such a point .  `` No , '' said Anne , `` I can readily believe all that of my cousin .  said Marianne , as soon as they were gone .  While they talked , they were advancing towards the carriage ; it was ready ; and , before she could speak again , he had handed her in .  my dear , I wish you would not make matches and foretell things , for whatever you say always comes to pass .  But as it is , it must be out of anybody 's power to assist him .  `` Upon my honour , '' said he very seriously , `` it does not .  Can I be of any use ? ''  Eight years , almost eight years had passed , since all had been given up .  I deserved none .  Their dress had every advantage , their faces were rather pretty , their spirits extremely good , their manner unembarrassed and pleasant ; they were of consequence at home , and favourites abroad .  Besides , I can tell where I am used well ; The poor parsons with wind like a blown bladder swell .  You would be surprised to hear how often I watched you , how often I was on the point of falling in with you .  -- She listened to her praise of Lucy with only moving from one chair to another , and when Mrs. Jennings talked of Edward 's affection , it cost her only a spasm in her throat. -- Such advances towards heroism in her sister , made Elinor feel equal to any thing herself .  were the first words which burst from Captain Wentworth , in a tone of despair , and as if all his own strength were gone .  I thought you were speaking of some man of property : Mr Wentworth was nobody , I remember ; quite unconnected ; nothing to do with the Strafford family .  At last he was persuaded to move on from the front of the Crown ; and being now almost facing the house where the Bateses lodged , Emma recollected his intended visit the day before , and asked him if he had paid it .  Is that trembling cry a song ?  Still another day the boy tried the same trick , and the villagers came running to help and got laughed at again .  Anne and me are to go the latter end of January to some relations who have been wanting us to visit them these several years !  The kindness , the unceasing kindness of Mrs. Jennings , I had repaid with ungrateful contempt .  Yes , indeed , oh yes !  `` Yes .  She had herself been first with him for many years past .  I happened to be at Lyme . ''  Oh !  How could you suppose me ignorant ?  You will soon , I earnestly hope , know her thoroughly yourself. -- No description can describe her .  `` You were mentioning May .  Upon hearing how long a walk the young people had engaged in , they kindly offered a seat to any lady who might be particularly tired ; it would save her a full mile , and they were going through Uppercross .  He would stand to it , cost him what it might . ''  She sewed for people , and when she was a little older she taught some little girls their lessons , and then she wrote stories for the papers .  Though condemning her for the past , and considering it with high and unjust resentment , though perfectly careless of her , and though becoming attached to another , still he could not see her suffer , without the desire of giving her relief .  Her mutterings were chiefly to her husband ; and he murmured , in reply ,  `` Why should you caution me ? -- You do not think I care about Mr. Frank Churchill . ''  As she spoke , she felt that Captain Wentworth was looking at her , the consciousness of which vexed and embarrassed her , and made her regret that she had said so much , simple as it was .  She read it to him , just as he liked to have any thing read , slowly and distinctly , and two or three times over , with explanations of every part as she proceeded -- and he was very much pleased , and , as she had foreseen , especially struck with the complimentary conclusion .  A more reasonable cause might be found in the dependent situation which forbade the indulgence of his affection .  `` I do n't see how we are going to stop him , '' said Billy Mink .  Most comfortable carriage. -- Oh !  She was generous , amiable , interesting : she was everything but prudent .  Then the King-crab was sent for .  `` My father and Mrs. Weston are at the Crown at this moment , '' said Frank Churchill , `` examining the capabilities of the house .  But as it was her determination to subdue it , and to prevent herself from appearing to suffer more than what all her family suffered on his going away , she did not adopt the method so judiciously employed by Marianne , on a similar occasion , to augment and fix her sorrow , by seeking silence , solitude and idleness .  I am almost ashamed to say it . ''  She felt that Edward stood very high in her opinion .  `` I have perhaps given her a little more decision of character , have taught her to think on points which had not fallen in her way before . ''  `` With all my heart .  `` Upon my word , '' said she , `` I should not have supposed that my opinion of any one could have admitted of such difference of conjecture , steady and matter of fact as I may call myself .  CHAPTER 28  I have all sorts of fine things to eat every day .  `` You are ungrateful . ''  Quite otherwise indeed , if I understood Miss Fairfax 's opinion last night . ''  and I have often wished -- but it is so little one can venture to do -- small , trifling presents , of any thing uncommon -- Now we have killed a porker , and Emma thinks of sending them a loin or a leg ; it is very small and delicate -- Hartfield pork is not like any other pork -- but still it is pork -- and , my dear Emma , unless one could be sure of their making it into steaks , nicely fried , as ours are fried , without the smallest grease , and not roast it , for no stomach can bear roast pork -- I think we had better send the leg -- do not you think so , my dear ? ''  Then I went to my pretty rose tree , To tend her by day and by night ; But my rose turned away with jealousy , And her thorns were my only delight .  Nothing can stand more retired from the road than Maple Grove .  But perhaps he may never have heard of there being such a creature in the world . ''  `` Grandeur has but little , '' said Elinor , `` but wealth has much to do with it . ''  He shouts with joy , and gathers them in his dear hand ; and he runs to share them with his mother , saying , `` Here is what the patient blackberry-bush bore for us : see how nice , mamma ! ''  `` It is not very likely , my dear , that bathing should have been of use to her -- and if I had known you were wanting an embrocation , I would have spoken to --  It had been begun several days back .  cried the Jackal .  It had originated in misapprehension entirely .  `` Oh !  `` I am very glad to know all this , '' said Anne , after a little thoughtfulness .  Then naked and white , all their bags left behind , They rise upon clouds , and sport in the wind ; And the Angel told Tom , if he 'd be a good boy , He 'd have God for his father , and never want joy .  `` Of course , '' said Mary , `` you will mention our seeing Mr Elliot , the next time you write to Bath .  Observe her eyes , as she is looking up at my father. -- You will be glad to hear ( inclining his head , and whispering seriously ) that my uncle means to give her all my aunt 's jewels .  It would be too much to expect Sir Walter to descend into a small house in his own neighbourhood .  And Elinor , in quitting Norland and Edward , cried not as I did .  It did not prick him for a long time , because he was good and merry and happy .  Struggling in my father 's hands , Striving against my swaddling-bands , Bound and weary , I thought best To sulk upon my mother 's breast .  `` I 'm going fishing , '' said he in his deep grumbly-rumbly voice to no one in particular .  Mr. Weston , always alert when business was to be done , and as incapable of procrastinating any evil that was inevitable , as of foreseeing any that was doubtful , said , `` It was time to go ; '' and the young man , though he might and did sigh , could not but agree , to take leave .  What we want to know is what Little Joe Otter has got on his mind . ''  That was well done of me ; but there I should have stopped , and left the rest to time and chance .  YOUR competence and MY wealth are very much alike , I dare say ; and without them , as the world goes now , we shall both agree that every kind of external comfort must be wanting .  I could wish the stairs were handsome .  The disappointment of the evening before seemed forgotten in the expectation of what was to happen that day .  `` And so , I made her go .  He had just read Elton 's letter as I was shewn in , and handed it to me directly . ''  Their being in the back ground was a support to Anne ; she knew nothing of their looks , and felt equal to everything which she believed right to be done .  For you alone , I think and plan .  From house to house he goes , A messenger small and slight , And whether it rains or snows , He sleeps outside in the night .  And the next took up her song , -- `` No longer will Frode sit on his throne , and rule over rings of red gold and mighty millstones .  She loves piquet , you know ; but when she is gone home , I am afraid you will be sitting up by yourself , instead of going to bed at your usual time -- and the idea of that would entirely destroy my comfort .  You talk of being proud ; I am called proud , I know , and I shall not wish to believe myself otherwise ; for our pride , if investigated , would have the same object , I have no doubt , though the kind may seem a little different .  If the talking aunt had taken me quite by surprize , it must have been the death of me .  that ball ! -- why did we wait for any thing ? -- why not seize the pleasure at once ? -- How often is happiness destroyed by preparation , foolish preparation ! -- You told us it would be so. -- Oh !  When Mrs. Jennings came home , though she returned from seeing people whom she had never seen before , and of whom therefore she must have a great deal to say , her mind was so much more occupied by the important secret in her possession , than by anything else , that she reverted to it again as soon as Elinor appeared .  From Cleveland , which was within a few miles of Bristol , the distance to Barton was not beyond one day , though a long day 's journey ; and their mother 's servant might easily come there to attend them down ; and as there could be no occasion of their staying above a week at Cleveland , they might now be at home in little more than three weeks ' time .  In each hand he carried a milk pail .  Either bathing has been of the greatest service to her , or else it is to be attributed to an excellent embrocation of Mr. Wingfield 's , which we have been applying at times ever since August . ''  He asked me if he could do any thing .  I like them extremely .  While he staid , the Martins were forgotten ; and on the very morning of his setting off for Bath again , Emma , to dissipate some of the distress it occasioned , judged it best for her to return Elizabeth Martin 's visit .  oh Lord !  Elinor scolded him , harshly as ladies always scold the imprudence which compliments themselves , for having spent so much time with them at Norland , when he must have felt his own inconstancy .  `` No trouble in the world , ma'am , '' said the obliging Mrs. Ford .  `` I met Mrs. Jennings in Bond Street , '' said he , after the first salutation , `` and she encouraged me to come on ; and I was the more easily encouraged , because I thought it probable that I might find you alone , which I was very desirous of doing .  And Frank Churchill was heard to say , `` I think you could manage this without effort ; the first part is so very trifling .  Elinor began to find this impertinence too much for her temper ; but she was saved the trouble of checking it , by Lucy 's sharp reprimand , which now , as on many occasions , though it did not give much sweetness to the manners of one sister , was of advantage in governing those of the other .  He then really thought himself equal to it .  `` to exemplify : a beautiful glossy nut , which , blessed with original strength , has outlived all the storms of autumn .  Dr. Davies was coming to town , and so we thought we 'd join him in a post-chaise ; and he behaved very genteelly , and paid ten or twelve shillings more than we did . ''  `` I have not a doubt of it , '' said Marianne ; `` and I have nothing to regret -- nothing but my own folly . ''  You must not run away from us now .  But he that loves the lowly , pours his oil upon my head And kisses me , and binds his nuptial bands around my breast .  As for the navy , it had fashion on its side , but I was too old when the subject was first started to enter it -- and , at length , as there was no necessity for my having any profession at all , as I might be as dashing and expensive without a red coat on my back as with one , idleness was pronounced on the whole to be most advantageous and honourable , and a young man of eighteen is not in general so earnestly bent on being busy as to resist the solicitations of his friends to do nothing .  What evil is there in that ? ''  They ran at him and beat him , and stoned him , and drove him away half dead .  growled Little Joe .  She wondered , and questioned him eagerly ; but in vain .  The children are all fond of him . ''  Does the sower Sow by night , Or the plowman in darkness plough ?  `` I am very much astonished , Mr. Elton .  He was devoted to Henrietta ; always turning towards her ; and when he spoke at all , always with the view of supporting her hopes and raising her spirits .  `` That will do , '' said he , when it was finished , thinking aloud -- `` you have sung quite enough for one evening -- now be quiet . ''  `` Mr. Frank Churchill and Miss Woodhouse flirted together excessively . ''  It did assist ; for though he began with grave looks and short questions , he was soon led on to talk of them all in the usual way , and to take the child out of her arms with all the unceremoniousness of perfect amity .  THE CASTLE OF FORTUNE One lovely summer morning , just as the sun rose , two travellers started on a journey .  As I tell Mr. E. , you are a thorough humourist. -- Yes , believe me , Knightley , I am fully sensible of your attention to me in the whole of this scheme .  `` You MUST drink tea with us to night , '' said he , `` for we shall be quite alone -- and tomorrow you must absolutely dine with us , for we shall be a large party . ''  I have no pity for either of them .  This is a recollection which ought to make me forgive every one sooner than myself .  But you were preparing yourself to be an excellent wife all the time you were at Hartfield .  One of the least agreeable circumstances of her residence there was her being treated with too much confidence by all parties , and being too much in the secret of the complaints of each house .  And so he was quiet , and that very night , As Tom was a-sleeping , he had such a sight !  The young ladies went , and Lady Middleton was happily preserved from the frightful solitude which had threatened her .  But , however , I hope you will think better of it .  There was no longer anything of tenderness due to him .  I want to see you permanently well connected , and to that end it will be advisable to have as few odd acquaintance as may be ; and , therefore , I say that if you should still be in this country when Mr. Martin marries , I wish you may not be drawn in by your intimacy with the sisters , to be acquainted with the wife , who will probably be some mere farmer 's daughter , without education . ''  Ford . ''  `` But has he not beauty exactly like your own , Sire ? ''  His head is full of some books that he is reading upon your recommendation , and he wants to talk to you about them ; he has found out something or other in one of them which he thinks -- oh !  And as soon as they found he really could not hurt them they began to despise him ; and finally they sent another messenger to Jove to ask for a new king .  Farmer Brown 's boy started to whistle , and then he stopped .  I have another person 's interest at present so much at heart , that I can not think any longer about Frank Churchill .  He was giving Harriet information as to modes of agriculture , etc .  In short , it ended in a total breach .  His quick eye she detected again and again glancing towards them with a happy expression ; and even , when he might have determined not to look , she was confident that he was often listening .  `` Had I known as much half an hour ago -- But since I AM here , '' -- speaking with a forced vivacity as he returned to his seat -- '' what does it signify ? -- For once , Miss Dashwood -- it will be the last time , perhaps -- let us be cheerful together. -- I am in a fine mood for gaiety. -- Tell me honestly '' -- a deeper glow overspreading his cheeks -- `` do you think me most a knave or a fool ? ''  On Monday evening , my good friend Mrs Rooke let me thus much into the secrets of Marlborough Buildings .  But it was not the kind old Moon at all ; it was the great mother Sun , just coming up out of her home in the sea , to begin her day 's work .  To Marianne it had all the distinguishing tenderness which a lover 's heart could give , and to the rest of the family it was the affectionate attention of a son and a brother .  Mrs. Dashwood now looked at her daughter ; but Elinor knew better than to expect them .  `` Emma , '' said Mr. Knightley presently , `` I have a piece of news for you .  Mr. Woodhouse talked over his alarms , and Emma was in spirits to persuade them away with all her usual promptitude .  Emma watched and decided , that with such feelings as were now shewn , it could not be fairly supposed that he had been ever voluntarily absenting himself ; that he had not been acting a part , or making a parade of insincere professions ; and that Mr. Knightley certainly had not done him justice .  For the convenience of Charlotte and her child , they were to be more than two days on their journey , and Mr. Palmer , travelling more expeditiously with Colonel Brandon , was to join them at Cleveland soon after their arrival .  One day , the men who were watering the crops saw a great number of crickets swarming over the ground at the edge of the gardens nearest the mountains .  In one point , her feelings were relieved by this knowledge of Mr Elliot .  Then he told how early that very morning he and Buster Bear had been fishing together in the Laughing Brook , and how Farmer Brown 's boy had been fishing there too , and hadn't caught a single trout because they had all been caught or frightened before he got there .  How did you think the Coxes looked ? ''  Elinor saw , with concern , the excess of her sister 's sensibility ; but by Mrs. Dashwood it was valued and cherished .  Encouragement should be given .  Do n't let us be severe , do n't let us be in a hurry to condemn him .  Could you have a motive for the trust , that was not honourable and flattering to me ? ''  `` Sit down , and I will be both . ''  I undertake the commission .  `` Ona , pale and weak , To thy father speak !  You might , without thinking , you know , tell that secret out loud to yourself , and some one might , just might happen to overhear !  Mr. John Dashwood told his mother again and again how exceedingly sorry he was that she had taken a house at such a distance from Norland as to prevent his being of any service to her in removing her furniture .  The way to carry a puppy-dog is to take a long piece of string and tie one end of it round the puppy-dog 's neck and put the puppy-dog on the ground , and take hold of the other end of the string and come along home , like this . ''  `` In this affair it can only do harm ; more so perhaps than in many cases of a similar kind , for it has been attended by circumstances which , for the sake of every one concerned in it , make it unfit to become the public conversation .  replied Lucy ; `` I wonder at that , for I thought you must have seen her at Norland sometimes .  The party drove off in very good spirits ; Sir Walter prepared with condescending bows for all the afflicted tenantry and cottagers who might have had a hint to show themselves , and Anne walked up at the same time , in a sort of desolate tranquillity , to the Lodge , where she was to spend the first week .  `` I shall not attempt it .  there is no end of the sad consequences of your going to South End .  Harriet had not been at home ; but a note had been prepared and left for her , written in the very style to touch ; a small mixture of reproach , with a great deal of kindness ; and till Mr. Elton himself appeared , she had been much occupied by it , continually pondering over what could be done in return , and wishing to do more than she dared to confess .  `` You have probably entirely forgotten a conversation -- ( it is not to be supposed that it could make any impression on you ) -- a conversation between us one evening at Barton Park -- it was the evening of a dance -- in which I alluded to a lady I had once known , as resembling , in some measure , your sister Marianne . ''  A SONG Sweet dreams , form a shade O'er my lovely infant 's head !  It was weather which might fairly confine every body at home ; and though she hoped and believed him to be really taking comfort in some society or other , it was very pleasant to have her father so well satisfied with his being all alone in his own house , too wise to stir out ; and to hear him say to Mr. Knightley , whom no weather could keep entirely from them , --  It was true .  She hates whist I know ; but is there no round game she cares for ? ''  The shoemaker and his wife were quite at a loss .  It is apt to make one selfish and thoughtless of other people and very hard to get along with .  Perhaps it is paid already .  Mr. Knightley is coming too .  `` Well , well , I am ready ; '' -- and turning again to Emma , `` but you must not be expecting such a _very_ fine young man ; you have only had _my_ account you know ; I dare say he is really nothing extraordinary : '' -- though his own sparkling eyes at the moment were speaking a very different conviction .  Frederick !  It is fun to do it .  For forty years he lived so , preaching to the people , praying for them , comforting them in trouble , and , most of all , worshipping in his heart .  Marianne spoke inconsiderately what she really felt -- but when she saw how much she had pained Edward , her own vexation at her want of thought could not be surpassed by his .  Well , I do n't like to tell you , but he was trying to swallow one of the children of Stickytoes the Tree Toad .  He had met her before breakfast as he was returning from a walk with his little boys , when it had been just beginning to rain .  The Kellynch property was good , but not equal to Sir Walter 's apprehension of the state required in its possessor .  Your sister being with you , my love , I have no scruple at all .  `` Oh !  Mr. Perry has been with her , as you probably heard . ''  It would be dreadful to be standing so close !  Now Farmer Brown's boy learned a long time ago that to be a successful fisherman one must have a great deal of patience , so though he did n't get a bite right away as he had expected to , he was n't the least bit discouraged .  Sir Walter spurned the idea of its being offered in any manner ; forbad the slightest hint being dropped of his having such an intention ; and it was only on the supposition of his being spontaneously solicited by some most unexceptionable applicant , on his own terms , and as a great favour , that he would let it at all .  The picture ! -- How eager he had been about the picture ! -- and the charade ! -- and an hundred other circumstances ; -- how clearly they had seemed to point at Harriet .  His acquittal was complete , his friendship warmly honoured , a lively interest excited for his friend , and his description of the fine country about Lyme so feelingly attended to by the party , that an earnest desire to see Lyme themselves , and a project for going thither was the consequence .  -- but checking himself -- '' No , no , I understand you -- forgive me -- I am pleased that you can say even so much. -- He is no object of regret , indeed !  `` Do n't you believe I'm telling the truth ? ''  But in this he was eagerly opposed by his wife , with `` Oh !  Where is it ?  Mr. Knightley , in fact , was one of the few people who could see faults in Emma Woodhouse , and the only one who ever told her of them : and though this was not particularly agreeable to Emma herself , she knew it would be so much less so to her father , that she would not have him really suspect such a circumstance as her not being thought perfect by every body .  By one measure I might have saved myself .  only think .  `` H-m , '' he thought , `` that looks singularly like my friend , the Alligator .  She was quite concerned and ashamed , and resolved to do such things no more .  `` Oh !  Elinor tried very seriously to convince him that there was no likelihood of her marrying Colonel Brandon ; but it was an expectation of too much pleasure to himself to be relinquished , and he was really resolved on seeking an intimacy with that gentleman , and promoting the marriage by every possible attention .  to be sure I do .  She gloried in being a sailor 's wife , but she must pay the tax of quick alarm for belonging to that profession which is , if possible , more distinguished in its domestic virtues than in its national importance .  `` _My_ report from Mrs. Goddard 's , '' said she presently , `` was not so pleasant as I had hoped -- `Not better ' was _my_ answer . ''  She and the children might stay very well . ''  think a farmer , ( and with all his sense and all his merit Mr. Martin is nothing more , ) a good match for my intimate friend !  `` Very likely , '' said Emma -- '' nothing more likely .  The fox looked at him and began to run .  I pity HER .  Emma spared no exertions to maintain this happier flow of ideas , and hoped , by the help of backgammon , to get her father tolerably through the evening , and be attacked by no regrets but her own .  I like her the better for it .  `` I should be undeserving of the confidence you have honoured me with , if I felt no desire for its continuance , or no farther curiosity on its subject .  `` You are very kind , but I know what my manners were to you. -- So cold and artificial ! -- I had always a part to act. -- It was a life of deceit ! -- I know that I must have disgusted you . ''  To her it was but the natural consequence of a strong affection in a young and ardent mind .  Still another found fault with the horse 's tail .  said the fox .  cried Mr. Knightley .  `` But what , '' said she after a short silence , `` are your views ?  I could not have visited Mrs. Robert Martin , of Abbey-Mill Farm .  The same civilities and courtesies , the same success and satisfaction , took place on the morrow , and accompanied the whole progress of the picture , which was rapid and happy .  `` And that you are very likely to do very soon , I can tell you , ma'am , '' said Charles .  Elinor could hardly believe this to be true , as it seemed very unlikely that Willoughby should propose , or Marianne consent , to enter the house while Mrs. Smith was in it , with whom Marianne had not the smallest acquaintance .  The scene enlarged ; two persons appeared ; Mrs. Weston and her son-in-law ; they were walking into Highbury ; -- to Hartfield of course .  You must answer it of course -- and speedily . ''  HOW MOSES WAS SAVED Thousands of years ago , many years before David lived , there was a very wise and good man of his people who was a friend and adviser of the king of Egypt .  How very odd ! ''  `` A very serious sort , I assure you ; '' still smiling .  And his mother would put out her hand from the big bed and push the little bed back and forth till she was tired .  I believe , '' she added in a low voice , `` he would have been very glad to have had me , if he could .  But Chatterer had learned from Old Mother Nature that she had given him certain things to help him at just such times , and one of them is the power to spread himself very flat .  `` Did you ever see such a skin ? -- such smoothness !  She would sit whenever I asked her .  Elinor , with great civility , declined the proposal .  He had not left her long , by no means long enough for her to have the slightest inclination for thinking of any body else , when a letter was brought her from Randalls -- a very thick letter ; -- she guessed what it must contain , and deprecated the necessity of reading it. -- She was now in perfect charity with Frank Churchill ; she wanted no explanations , she wanted only to have her thoughts to herself -- and as for understanding any thing he wrote , she was sure she was incapable of it. -- It must be waded through , however .  `` You must make my apologies to your friend ; but so good a charade must not be confined to one or two .  Mr. Weston was following ; but Mrs. Elton detained him , to gratify him by her opinion of his son ; and so briskly did she begin , that the young man himself , though by no means moving slowly , could hardly be out of hearing .  Now , how were his sentiments to be read ?  Though nothing could be more polite than Lady Middleton 's behaviour to Elinor and Marianne , she did not really like them at all .  It is very fit they should have daughters ' shares ; and I am sure he has always been a very kind , liberal father to me .  Frederick Wentworth had used such words , or something like them , but without an idea that they would be carried round to her .  Frank Churchill , of whom , in the eagerness of her conversation with Mrs. Weston , she had been seeing nothing , except that he had found a seat by Miss Fairfax , followed Mr. Cole , to add his very pressing entreaties ; and as , in every respect , it suited Emma best to lead , she gave a very proper compliance .  `` Certainly , '' said the Mouse-deer , `` go along . ''  The delightful emotions were a little subdued , when on stepping back from the group , to be joined again by Captain Wentworth , she saw that he was gone .  it is spring ! ''  I have a great regard for you and Emma ; but when it comes to the question of dependence or independence ! -- At any rate , it must be better to have only one to please than two . ''  no , there is but one .  She surprised Elinor very much as they returned into the drawing-room , by asking her whether she did not like Mr. Palmer excessively .  The neglect had been visited on the head of the sinner ; for when poor Lady Elliot died herself , no letter of condolence was received at Kellynch , and , consequently , there was but too much reason to apprehend that the Dalrymples considered the relationship as closed .  And then lowering her voice , `` I suppose Mrs. Jennings has heard all about it .  `` 'I nod my head to all who pass , and dreary nights and dreary days go by ; but in the happy house , so warm and bright , the little boy plays all day with books and toys .  `` Open your mouth then . ''  `` Yes , yes , his cage , '' said the Brahmin .  `` Then it can be no argument to prove that he is in love .  He was determined , at least , not to mar it by an imprudent marriage ; and I know it was his belief ( whether justly or not , of course I can not decide ) , that your father and sister , in their civilities and invitations , were designing a match between the heir and the young lady , and it was impossible that such a match should have answered his ideas of wealth and independence .  Mary , very much gratified by this attention , was delighted to receive him , while a thousand feelings rushed on Anne , of which this was the most consoling , that it would soon be over .  No , it was long enough , broad enough , handsome enough .  She was born to discover the falsehood of her own opinions , and to counteract , by her conduct , her most favourite maxims .  Louisa had fine naval fervour to begin with , and they would soon grow more alike .  I saw them going by , and if you will loose me now , I am swifter than you , and I will follow them until I overtake them . ''  It was the beginning of February ; and Anne , having been a month in Bath , was growing very eager for news from Uppercross and Lyme .  `` Oh !  Billy Mink stopped long enough to eat the fat fish Buster had left on the bank and then he too went down to the Smiling Pool .  She received the news with resolute composure ; made no observation on it , and at first shed no tears ; but after a short time they would burst out , and for the rest of the day , she was in a state hardly less pitiable than when she first learnt to expect the event .  `` I never had the smallest , I assure you . ''  He walked by her side .  `` Yes , '' cried he in the same eager tone , `` with all and every thing belonging to it ; -- in no one convenience or INconvenience about it , should the least variation be perceptible .  He had not been at Donwell for two years .  There was a seriousness in Harriet 's manner which prepared her , quite as much as her words , for something more than ordinary .  I will move a little farther off . ''  `` Because , '' replied he , smiling , `` among the rest of the objects before me , I see a very dirty lane . ''  In the age of gold , Free from winter 's cold , Youth and maiden bright , To the holy light , Naked in the sunny beams delight .  Emma divined what every body present must be thinking .  With a bridge of white mist Columbkill he crosses , On his stately journeys From Slieveleague to Rosses ; Or going up with music On cold starry nights , To sup with the Queen Of the gay Northern Lights .  He could not be persuaded that so many good-looking houses as he saw around him , could not furnish numbers enough for such a meeting ; and even when particulars were given and families described , he was still unwilling to admit that the inconvenience of such a mixture would be any thing , or that there would be the smallest difficulty in every body 's returning into their proper place the next morning .  At the same moment , a voice said , `` Good actions never go unrewarded ! ''  Emma pondered a moment , and then replied , `` I will not pretend _not_ to understand you ; and to give you all the relief in my power , be assured that no such effect has followed his attentions to me , as you are apprehensive of . ''  But never did she go without Mr. Woodhouse 's giving a gentle sigh , and saying , `` Ah , poor Miss Taylor !  He is very far from being independent .  You see , they had come to believe that Farmer Brown 's boy was n't afraid of anybody or anything , and as most of them were very much afraid of him , they had hard work to believe that he would really be afraid of even such a great , big , strong fellow as Buster Bear .  Will you ?  `` It would be unnecessary I am sure , for you to caution Mrs. Palmer and Sir John against ever naming Mr. Willoughby , or making the slightest allusion to what has passed , before my sister .  and yet , she could not help rather anticipating something decisive .  Mr. Martin looked as if he did not know what manner was .  `` There does , indeed , seem as little to tempt her to break her resolution at present , '' said Mrs. Weston , `` as can well be ; and while she is so happy at Hartfield , I can not wish her to be forming any attachment which would be creating such difficulties on poor Mr. Woodhouse 's account .  Why a little curtain of flesh on the bed of our desire ?  It was a great object with me at that time to be at sea ; a very great object , I wanted to be doing something . ''  It was no longer in Emma 's power to superintend his happiness or quicken his measures .  From such commendation as this , however , there was not much to be learned ; Elinor well knew that the sweetest girls in the world were to be met with in every part of England , under every possible variation of form , face , temper and understanding .  Then , instead of growing angry , a slow smile stole over his freckled face .  She had little difficulty ; it was soon determined that they would go ; go to-morrow , fix themselves at the inn , or get into lodgings , as it suited , and there remain till dear Louisa could be moved .  thump !  Next day Epaminondas went to see his Auntie again , and when he came to go home she gave him a loaf of bread to carry to his Mammy ; a brown , fresh , crusty loaf of bread .  `` Nay , I had it from you .  They separated too much into parties .  `I did not make the allowances , ' said she , `which I ought to have done , for his temper and spirits -- his delightful spirits , and that gaiety , that playfulness of disposition , which , under any other circumstances , would , I am sure , have been as constantly bewitching to me , as they were at first . '  And not all that could be urged to detain her succeeded .  He was not only pardoned , they were delighted with him .  When breakfast was over she walked out by herself , and wandered about the village of Allenham , indulging the recollection of past enjoyment and crying over the present reverse for the chief of the morning .  Then she sang one more song , so sweet and so sad that it made Death think of his garden in the churchyard , where he always liked best to be .  They were on Union Street , when a quicker step behind , a something of familiar sound , gave her two moments ' preparation for the sight of Captain Wentworth .  `` Dear me !  But Marianne , who saw his agitation , and could easily trace it to whatever cause best pleased herself , was perfectly satisfied , and soon talked of something else .  But this was the only point of relief .  I forget where we had been walking to -- very likely to Randalls ; yes , I think it was to Randalls .  Her 's , for me , was , I believe , fervent as the attachment of your sister to Mr. Willoughby and it was , though from a different cause , no less unfortunate .  `` No , '' replied Elinor , `` her opinions are all romantic . ''  You will express yourself very properly , I am sure .  They would not listen to scruples : he was obeyed ; they were all beneath his roof ; and while Louisa , under Mrs Harville 's direction , was conveyed up stairs , and given possession of her own bed , assistance , cordials , restoratives were supplied by her husband to all who needed them .  `` You may esteem him . ''  The result of this distress was , that , with a much more voluntary , cheerful consent than his daughter had ever presumed to hope for at the moment , she was able to fix her wedding-day -- and Mr. Elton was called on , within a month from the marriage of Mr. and Mrs. Robert Martin , to join the hands of Mr. Knightley and Miss Woodhouse .  -- repeated Mr .  how Charlotte and I did stuff the only time we were there !  It was there our acquaintance begun , for my sister and me was often staying with my uncle , and it was there our engagement was formed , though not till a year after he had quitted as a pupil ; but he was almost always with us afterwards .  One of the prettiest legends is the story I am going to tell you about the Dagda 's harp .  They had been once more in the same room .  It was not very long , though rather longer than Mr. Weston had foreseen , before she had the power of forming some opinion of Frank Churchill 's feelings .  The horror and distress you were involved in , the stretch of mind , the wear of spirits !  Certain it was that she was to come ; and that Highbury , instead of welcoming that perfect novelty which had been so long promised it -- Mr. Frank Churchill -- must put up for the present with Jane Fairfax , who could bring only the freshness of a two years ' absence .  From Seeds and Plants Company , Reading .  You need not be afraid of unwholesome preserves here .  My greatest danger , perhaps , in housekeeping , may be quite the other way , in doing too much , and being too careless of expense .  Should not the Colonel write himself ? -- sure , he is the proper person . ''  -- seemed to burst from an overcharged heart , and to describe somewhat of the continual endurance to be practised by her , even towards some of those who loved her best .  `` You were living with your husband , and were the only woman on board . ''  It has hurt his father equally .  He had not gone far when he met a white horse , and he saluted him .  But when the dizziness began to go off , she whisked her little scissors out of her apron pocket , and snip !  You must get his consent before you ask mine . ''  `` There is nothing so bad as a separation .  Mrs Smith looked at her again , looked earnestly , smiled , shook her head , and exclaimed --  and she answered the question , smiling also , `` Yes .  `` It is a crazy man , '' thought the sexton ; and he was frightened .  `` That is the woman I want , '' said he .  The charming Augusta Hawkins , in addition to all the usual advantages of perfect beauty and merit , was in possession of an independent fortune , of so many thousands as would always be called ten ; a point of some dignity , as well as some convenience : the story told well ; he had not thrown himself away -- he had gained a woman of 10,000 l. or thereabouts ; and he had gained her with such delightful rapidity -- the first hour of introduction had been so very soon followed by distinguishing notice ; the history which he had to give Mrs. Cole of the rise and progress of the affair was so glorious -- the steps so quick , from the accidental rencontre , to the dinner at Mr. Green 's , and the party at Mrs. Brown 's -- smiles and blushes rising in importance -- with consciousness and agitation richly scattered -- the lady had been so easily impressed -- so sweetly disposed -- had in short , to use a most intelligible phrase , been so very ready to have him , that vanity and prudence were equally contented .  It does not do him justice , to be sure , but yet I think you can not be deceived as to the person it was drew for. -- I have had it above these three years . ''  I am sure I had much rather hear you .  And there was time enough for Emma to form a reasonable judgment , as their visit included all the rest of the morning .  Harriet bore the intelligence very well -- blaming nobody -- and in every thing testifying such an ingenuousness of disposition and lowly opinion of herself , as must appear with particular advantage at that moment to her friend .  His value for rank and connexion she perceived was greater than hers .  Elinor watched his countenance and saw its expression becoming more tranquil .  A few hours were to have engaged her to me for ever ; and I remember how happy , how gay were my spirits , as I walked from the cottage to Allenham , satisfied with myself , delighted with every body !  Anne presumed , however , still to smile about it , and at last to mention `` Elizabeth . ''  But the feelings which made such composure a disgrace , left her in no danger of incurring it .  She had an unhappy state of health in general for the child of such a man , for she hardly knew what indisposition was ; and if he did not invent illnesses for her , she could make no figure in a message .  `` None ; not one .  He did the same thing in the next pool and the next .  In one circumstance only , my Marianne , may your destiny be different from her 's ! ''  The morning of the interesting day arrived , and Mrs. Weston 's faithful pupil did not forget either at ten , or eleven , or twelve o'clock , that she was to think of her at four .  `` You are very obliging ; but as to all that , I am very indifferent ; it would be no object to me to be with the rich ; my mortifications , I think , would only be the greater ; I should suffer more from comparison .  `` I shall not give you any advice , Harriet .  Exactly so .  William Larkins let me keep a larger quantity than usual this year .  Emma felt that she could not do better than go home directly .  Knightley 's words dwelt with her .  Till now that she was threatened with its loss , Emma had never known how much of her happiness depended on being _first_ with Mr. Knightley , first in interest and affection. -- Satisfied that it was so , and feeling it her due , she had enjoyed it without reflection ; and only in the dread of being supplanted , found how inexpressibly important it had been. -- Long , very long , she felt she had been first ; for , having no female connexions of his own , there had been only Isabella whose claims could be compared with hers , and she had always known exactly how far he loved and esteemed Isabella .  `` And not known to him , perhaps , so soon . ''  She had understood it was to be delayed till Colonel Campbell 's return . ''  `` I believe you are right , my love ; it will be better that there should by no annuity in the case ; whatever I may give them occasionally will be of far greater assistance than a yearly allowance , because they would only enlarge their style of living if they felt sure of a larger income , and would not be sixpence the richer for it at the end of the year .  `` Aye , to be sure .  -- he cried , after hearing what she said -- '' what could be the Colonel 's motive ? ''  Those whom he has been the chief cause of leading into ruin , he can neglect and desert without the smallest compunction .  `` That is an expression , Sir John , '' said Marianne , warmly , `` which I particularly dislike .  She would not have been obstinate if I had not been weak .  Too good , too excellent creature !  He had been used to think her unjust to Jane , and had now great pleasure in marking an improvement .  What have they brought you ? ''  Another view of man , my second brings , Behold him there , the monarch of the seas !  yes , yes , there is not a word to be said against James Benwick .  Everything he wanted was brought to him , and music played while fireworks were set off in his honour .  Where can you look for a more suitable match ?  Father laughed .  He had a lunch in his traveller 's pouch , and he ate it comfortably .  Her sensations on the discovery made her perfectly speechless .  I am amazingly glad you did not keep to YOUR WORD . ''  You will not be sorry to find yourself at home . ''  It was evident how little the women were used to the sight of anything tolerable , by the effect which a man of decent appearance produced .  She could have made an inquiry or two , as to the expedition and the expense of the Irish mails ; -- it was at her tongue 's end -- but she abstained .  I speak from experience .  `` Come , we'll run on a bit ! ''  Tell me , I charge you tell me this moment what it is . ''  While he was walking around in the Green Forest , talking to himself about how hungry he was for some berries and how sure he was that there must be some up in the Old Pasture , some one else was thinking about berries and about the Old Pasture too .  `` Me ! ''  `` Disappointment ? ''  She is not a clever girl , but she has better sense than you are aware of , and does not deserve to have her understanding spoken of so slightingly .  `` Upon my soul , '' said he , `` I do not know much about him as to all THAT .  Just you watch me get even with Buster Bear . ''  Indeed , to say the truth , I am convinced within myself that your father had no idea of your giving them any money at all .  THE SHEPHERD 'S SONG David had many fierce battles to fight for King Saul against the enemies of Israel , and he won them all .  No ! -- she was more and more convinced that Mrs. Weston was quite mistaken in that surmise .  Then he felt drowsy from the heat and the early ride , so he pulled his hat over his eyes , and settled himself for a nap .  Lucy went on .  `` I do not know why you should say so .  By reading only six hours a-day , I shall gain in the course of a twelve-month a great deal of instruction which I now feel myself to want . ''  _Some_ _part_ of his conduct we can not excuse . ''  The clock struck ten .  Presently the carriage stopt ; she looked up ; it was stopt by Mr. and Mrs. Weston , who were standing to speak to her .  I have a little plan of alteration for your bedrooms too , which may now be performed without any inconvenience to any one .  no -- none in the least .  This one was like a three-cornered platform of wood , with a long , curved , strong rake under it .  Do n't disturb him .  Will that do ?  `` For once he knows just how we feel when he comes prowling around where we are .  Yes , I am sure you are much too reasonable .  And he had a feeling that he was a great deal more likely to meet one of them in the Old Pasture than deep in the Green Forest .  `` Her friends must all be sorry to lose her ; and will not Colonel and Mrs. Campbell be sorry to find that she has engaged herself before their return ? ''  I considered the past : I saw in my own behaviour , since the beginning of our acquaintance with him last autumn , nothing but a series of imprudence towards myself , and want of kindness to others .  `` No , you ca n't come in , '' the little Tulip said .  Now they were as strangers ; nay , worse than strangers , for they could never become acquainted .  When you hear that , pull very , very hard , for the cow is stuck very deep in the mud . ''  But to what does all this lead ?  for he is forced to make every body like him . ''  The worst of Bath was the number of its plain women .  It was settled so , upon the hill , while we were walking about with Mr. Knightley .  That 's it -- fresh fruit !  `` Granting your assertion that the world does all this so soon for men ( which , however , I do not think I shall grant ) , it does not apply to Benwick .  `` How often we shall be going to see them , and they coming to see us ! -- We shall be always meeting !  I would not have you too sanguine ; though , however it may end , be assured your raising your thoughts to _him_ , is a mark of good taste which I shall always know how to value . ''  `` To-morrow evening , to meet a few friends : no formal party . ''  All his sanguine expectations , all his confidence had been justified .  When the ladies withdrew to the drawing-room after dinner , this poverty was particularly evident , for the gentlemen HAD supplied the discourse with some variety -- the variety of politics , inclosing land , and breaking horses -- but then it was all over ; and one subject only engaged the ladies till coffee came in , which was the comparative heights of Harry Dashwood , and Lady Middleton 's second son William , who were nearly of the same age .  `` Where is the young man ? ''  When the great stone was raised up , the tailor put some sort of contrivance under it , that he might be able to throw it down as soon as the giants came near to it .  `` You are very obliging .  She liked him , however , upon the whole , much better than she had expected , and in her heart was not sorry that she could like him no more ; -- not sorry to be driven by the observation of his Epicurism , his selfishness , and his conceit , to rest with complacency on the remembrance of Edward 's generous temper , simple taste , and diffident feelings .  She was stopped by a slight fit of coughing , and Mr. Weston instantly seized the opportunity of going on .  [ Illustration : Those who could fly , flew .  `` I do not say it is so ; but you will do well to consider whether it is so or not , and to regulate your behaviour accordingly .  Elton ? ''  Their fates , their fortunes , can not be the same ; and had the natural sweet disposition of the one been guarded by a firmer mind , or a happier marriage , she might have been all that you will live to see the other be .  They were entering the hall .  He must enter into all my feelings ; the same books , the same music must charm us both .  `` I am delighted to hear you speak so stoutly on the subject , '' replied Emma , smiling ; `` but you do not mean to deny that there was a time -- and not very distant either -- when you gave me reason to understand that you did care about him ? ''  Such events are very interesting , but the suspense of them can not last long .  cried the people .  Her affection must have overpowered her judgment . ''  Elinor could no longer witness this torrent of unresisted grief in silence .  `` Oh !  And how you will explain away any part of your guilt in that dreadful business , I confess is beyond my comprehension . ''  It had taken them many months to make the terrible journey ; many had died of weariness and illness on the way ; many died of hardship during the winter ; and the provisions they had brought in their wagons were so nearly gone that , by spring , they were living partly on roots , dug from the ground .  Lucy made room for her with ready attention , and the two fair rivals were thus seated side by side at the same table , and , with the utmost harmony , engaged in forwarding the same work .  Colonel Campbell , you know , is quite our angel .  said he in his deepest , most grumbly-rumbly voice .  When Lucy first came to Barton Park last November , she told me in confidence of her engagement . ''  -- But , said I , I shall be more sure of succeeding if one of you will go with me. -- `Oh , ' said he , `wait half a minute , till I have finished my job ; ' -- For , would you believe it , Miss Woodhouse , there he is , in the most obliging manner in the world , fastening in the rivet of my mother 's spectacles. -- The rivet came out , you know , this morning. -- So very obliging ! -- For my mother had no use of her spectacles -- could not put them on .  When the particulars of this conversation were repeated by Miss Dashwood to her sister , as they very soon were , the effect on her was not entirely such as the former had hoped to see .  Mr. Knightley , a sensible man about seven or eight-and-thirty , was not only a very old and intimate friend of the family , but particularly connected with it , as the elder brother of Isabella 's husband .  There could be no doubt of his great pleasure in seeing her .  He had followed her into the shrubbery with no idea of trying it .  Mr. John Knightley smiled , and replied ,  Captain Harville had never been in good health since a severe wound which he received two years before , and Captain Wentworth 's anxiety to see him had determined him to go immediately to Lyme .  CHAPTER XVI  There is no danger of your not being intelligible , which is the first thing .  `` Yes , Mammy , '' said Epaminondas .  She had been forced into prudence in her youth , she learned romance as she grew older : the natural sequel of an unnatural beginning .  She must see more of him to understand his ways ; at present she only felt they were agreeable .  no wonder she has been looking so bad and so cast down this last week or two , for this matter I suppose has been hanging over her head as long as that .  Knightley and Harriet Smith ! -- Such an elevation on her side !  `` Upon my word , my dear , I do not know , for I never heard the subject talked of . ''  `` I want to feel that it is my very own . ''  He undertakes it ; '' ( looking towards Captain Wentworth , ) `` he is writing about it now . ''  Mrs. Jennings , perhaps satisfied with the partial justification of her forebodings which had been found in their late alarm , allowed herself to trust in his judgment , and admitted , with unfeigned joy , and soon with unequivocal cheerfulness , the probability of an entire recovery .  Soon spreads the dismal shade Of Mystery over his head , And the caterpillar and fly Feed on the Mystery .  She occupied her mind as much as possible in such like musings and quotations ; but it was not possible , that when within reach of Captain Wentworth 's conversation with either of the Miss Musgroves , she should not try to hear it ; yet she caught little very remarkable .  It was ten o'clock .  He knows nothing of it ; do tell him , my dear . ''  There he stopped , and said , -- `` Oh , Jackal ! ''  The shiny acorn rolled to the door and struck against it with a tap .  He had an affectionate heart .  That , you know , was so very .  I am sure they will like her extremely ; and when she gets a little acquainted with them , her fears will completely wear off , for there really is nothing in the manners of either but what is highly conciliating. -- I shall have her very often indeed while they are with me , and I dare say we shall sometimes find a seat for her in the barouche-landau in some of our exploring parties . ''  She would not allow any other anxiety to succeed directly to the place in her mind which Harriet had occupied .  `` Who can this be ? ''  He started .  The offence which had been given her father , many years back , she knew ; Elizabeth 's particular share in it she suspected ; and that Mr Elliot 's idea always produced irritation in both was beyond a doubt .  One day 's delay will not be very material ; and till I have written to Mr. Ferrars , I think it ought not to be mentioned to any body else .  Mrs. Weston , your argument weighs most with me .  To Lady Russell , indeed , she was a most dear and highly valued god-daughter , favourite , and friend .  Mr. Ferrars , I believe , is entirely dependent on his mother . ''  my sins , my sins ! -- And I had plenty all the while in my pocket ! -- One of my senseless tricks ! -- I deserve to be under a continual blush all the rest of my life. -- Well -- ( sitting down again ) -- go on -- what else ? ''  Most earnestly did she wish that he might not be too nice , or too observant if Elizabeth were his object ; and that Elizabeth was disposed to believe herself so , and that her friend Mrs Clay was encouraging the idea , seemed apparent by a glance or two between them , while Mr Elliot 's frequent visits were talked of .  I write to the Doctor , indeed ! ' ''  Fortunately for those who pay their court through such foibles , a fond mother , though , in pursuit of praise for her children , the most rapacious of human beings , is likewise the most credulous ; her demands are exorbitant ; but she will swallow any thing ; and the excessive affection and endurance of the Miss Steeles towards her offspring were viewed therefore by Lady Middleton without the smallest surprise or distrust .  Mr Elliot talks unreservedly to Colonel Wallis of his views on you , which said Colonel Wallis , I imagine to be , in himself , a sensible , careful , discerning sort of character ; but Colonel Wallis has a very pretty silly wife , to whom he tells things which he had better not , and he repeats it all to her .  PRINCE CHERRY There was once an old king , so wise and kind and true that the most powerful good fairy of his land visited him and asked him to name the dearest wish of his heart , that she might grant it .  This is breaking a head and giving a plaster , truly ! ''  Though much might be fancy , he could not doubt , when he looked back , that she was in a weaker state of health than she had been half a year ago .  I need not so totally despair of an equal alliance , as to be addressing myself to Miss Smith ! -- No , madam , my visits to Hartfield have been for yourself only ; and the encouragement I received -- ''  No , I thank you , I have nothing to trouble you with . ''  There were so many things to be done in the house , and she did not know how to do any of them !  No rumour of Lucy 's marriage had yet reached him : -- he knew nothing of what had passed ; and the first hours of his visit were consequently spent in hearing and in wondering .  He came .  I think Harriet is doing extremely well .  In the Big Hickory-tree were Chatterer the Red Squirrel , Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel , and Sammy Jay .  You said you had a great many , and now you have not one left .  I should have visited Admiral Croft , however , at any rate .  Fanny , rejoicing in her escape , and proud of the ready wit that had procured it , wrote the next morning to Lucy , to request her company and her sister 's , for some days , in Harley Street , as soon as Lady Middleton could spare them .  He was not calm ; his spirits were evidently fluttered ; there was restlessness about him .  It is evident , in spite of his frequent attention to her while she draws , that in fact he knows nothing of the matter .  She was not to see Frank Churchill this morning .  I will fetch your greatcoat and open the garden door for you . ''  It was evident that Charles Hayter was not well inclined towards Captain Wentworth .  `` Indeed !  The little boy comes running to look at me , and cries , `` Oh , mamma !  He would go , though I told him how ill I was .  Mary was not so repulsive and unsisterly as Elizabeth , nor so inaccessible to all influence of hers ; neither was there anything among the other component parts of the cottage inimical to comfort .  Then she wrinkled her forehead .  `` And I rather think that their reputation is pretty well hammered to pieces ! ''  How can I keep a sunny soul To shine along life 's way ?  `` I went only to the post-office , '' said she , `` and reached home before the rain was much .  Enscombe however was gracious , gracious in fact , if not in word .  Mr. Knightley had a cheerful manner , which always did him good ; and his many inquiries after `` poor Isabella '' and her children were answered most satisfactorily .  Round and round he was twirled till he was so dizzy he thought he must perish .  The little Country Mouse was shaking all over when they got safely away , but the little City Mouse said , `` That is nothing ; she will soon go away and then we can go back . ''  All within Elinor 's breast was satisfaction , silent and strong .  `` Look at Little Joe Otter !  `` His character , however , '' answered Elinor , `` does not rest on ONE act of kindness , to which his affection for Marianne , were humanity out of the case , would have prompted him .  Talks of his being going on so well !  He could only sit and brood , while his young heart swelled and a lump rose in his throat at the thought that he could do nothing .  `` But your father is not going so far ; he is only going to the Crown , quite on the other side of the street , and there are a great many houses ; you might be very much at a loss , and it is a very dirty walk , unless you keep on the footpath ; but my coachman can tell you where you had best cross the street . ''  Elinor DID think the question a very odd one , and her countenance expressed it , as she answered that she had never seen Mrs. Ferrars .  And instantly Prince Cherry was transformed into a little white dove .  Contrary to the usual course of things , Mr. Elton 's wanting to pay his addresses to her had sunk him in her opinion .  It was a heartiness , and a warmth , and a sincerity which Anne delighted in the more , from the sad want of such blessings at home .  They had not intended to go over till the summer , but she is so impatient to see them again -- for till she married , last October , she was never away from them so much as a week , which must make it very strange to be in different kingdoms , I was going to say , but however different countries , and so she wrote a very urgent letter to her mother -- or her father , I declare I do not know which it was , but we shall see presently in Jane 's letter -- wrote in Mr. Dixon 's name as well as her own , to press their coming over directly , and they would give them the meeting in Dublin , and take them back to their country seat , Baly-craig , a beautiful place , I fancy .  `` Depend upon it , Emma , a sensible man would find no difficulty in it .  Ungracious girl !  I have had my doubts , I confess ; but they are fainter than they were , and they may soon be entirely done away .  Elinor could sit it no longer .  There wasn't any doubt that he was afraid , very much afraid .  I put my hand on her wrist and whispered , 'Trust me , and I will take you safely home . '  Emma turned away her head , divided between tears and smiles .  The error has been all my own ; and I do assure you that , with all the excuse that present circumstances may appear to give , I shall yet dread making the story known to Colonel Campbell . ' ''  Lady Dalrymple and Miss Carteret -- they would soon be innoxious cousins to her .  Oh , is n't morning beautiful ?  Of all the family , Mary was probably the one most immediately gratified by the circumstance .  are you never to hear yourself praised ! -- Then you must be no friend of mine ; for those who will accept of my love and esteem , must submit to my open commendation . ''  It was a lucky recollection , all her good spirits were restored by it .  Emma was not at this time in a state of spirits to care really about Mr. Frank Churchill 's not coming , except as a disappointment at Randalls .  If she could only have a few minutes conversation with him again , she fancied she should be satisfied ; and as to the power of addressing him , she felt all over courage if the opportunity occurred .  the best nature in the world -- a wedding . ''  `` There was a strong expectation of his coming soon after the marriage , but it ended in nothing ; and I have not heard him mentioned lately . ''  I met her frequently at Weymouth .  She resigned herself at first to all the misery of her situation ; and happy had it been if she had not lived to overcome those regrets which the remembrance of me occasioned .  And that is how it happened that no one saw him or heard him until just as Farmer Brown 's boy stepped out from behind one side of a thick little hemlock-tree , Buster Bear stepped out from behind the other side of that same little tree , and there they were face to face !  SONGS OF INNOCENCE AND OF EXPERIENCE and THE BOOK of THEL  `` Why do you not ask Marianne at once , '' said she , `` whether she is or she is not engaged to Willoughby ?  This is the simple truth . ''  She was looking remarkably well ; her very regular , very pretty features , having the bloom and freshness of youth restored by the fine wind which had been blowing on her complexion , and by the animation of eye which it had also produced .  Elinor even advised her against it .  Everywhere the Emperor looked , there were faces .  One after another they came bobbing up , and one after another the stork ate them .  He was giving orders for a toothpick-case for himself , and till its size , shape , and ornaments were determined , all of which , after examining and debating for a quarter of an hour over every toothpick-case in the shop , were finally arranged by his own inventive fancy , he had no leisure to bestow any other attention on the two ladies , than what was comprised in three or four very broad stares ; a kind of notice which served to imprint on Elinor the remembrance of a person and face , of strong , natural , sterling insignificance , though adorned in the first style of fashion .  There was a great deal for a little city girl to be surprised about , and it did seem as if morning was a long way off !  He put down his gun and ran to her assistance .  I shall be sure to say three dull things as soon as ever I open my mouth , sha n't I ?  A real injury to the children -- a most mortifying change , and material loss to them all ; -- a very great deduction from her father 's daily comfort -- and , as to herself , she could not at all endure the idea of Jane Fairfax at Donwell Abbey .  But there never was enough money for these things , and Louisa 's mother grew more and more weary , and sometimes ill .  The sight of your dear sister , however , was really dreadful ; and , to heighten the matter , I found her alone .  Twice every year these annuities were to be paid ; and then there was the trouble of getting it to them ; and then one of them was said to have died , and afterwards it turned out to be no such thing .  Consider , here are the two Miss Careys come over from Newton , the three Miss Dashwoods walked up from the cottage , and Mr. Willoughby got up two hours before his usual time , on purpose to go to Whitwell . ''  In the first place he felt very important , and you know Blacky dearly loves to feel important .  Their party was now farther reduced ; for Mr. Palmer , though very unwilling to go as well from real humanity and good-nature , as from a dislike of appearing to be frightened away by his wife , was persuaded at last by Colonel Brandon to perform his promise of following her ; and while he was preparing to go , Colonel Brandon himself , with a much greater exertion , began to talk of going likewise. -- Here , however , the kindness of Mrs. Jennings interposed most acceptably ; for to send the Colonel away while his love was in so much uneasiness on her sister 's account , would be to deprive them both , she thought , of every comfort ; and therefore telling him at once that his stay at Cleveland was necessary to herself , that she should want him to play at piquet of an evening , while Miss Dashwood was above with her sister , & c. she urged him so strongly to remain , that he , who was gratifying the first wish of his own heart by a compliance , could not long even affect to demur ; especially as Mrs. Jennings 's entreaty was warmly seconded by Mr. Palmer , who seemed to feel a relief to himself , in leaving behind him a person so well able to assist or advise Miss Dashwood in any emergence .  Why , for Farmer Brown 's boy to come out on his way to milk the cows .  The ladies here probably exchanged looks which meant , `` Men never know when things are dirty or not ; '' and the gentlemen perhaps thought each to himself , `` Women will have their little nonsenses and needless cares . ''  Is it kingdom ?  This was too much .  `` Much nearer thirty , '' said her husband .  `` Why should they ask us ? ''  Here ceased the concert part of the evening , for Miss Woodhouse and Miss Fairfax were the only young lady performers ; but soon ( within five minutes ) the proposal of dancing -- originating nobody exactly knew where -- was so effectually promoted by Mr. and Mrs. Cole , that every thing was rapidly clearing away , to give proper space .  If I had my senses about me I might have called in Conduit Street in my way home , and told them of it .  It was a commission to touch every favourite feeling .  So very good of them to send her the whole way !  `` I must go home now ; it is late , '' said the Moon .  Now they seemed in pleasant conversation .  `` Do you dare say this ? ''  They seem very comfortable as they are , and if she were to take any pains to marry him , she would probably repent it .  But you had better change your mind . ''  `` Dear , dear , '' said the courtiers , `` that is very pleasant ; does that little grey bird really make all that noise ?  Who could it be ?  If Frank Churchill had wanted to see his father , he would have contrived it between September and January .  She had only time , however , to move closer to the table where he had been writing , when footsteps were heard returning ; the door opened , it was himself .  I always regret excessively on dear Emma 's account that she can not be more at Highbury ; but now their daughter is married , I suppose Colonel and Mrs. Campbell will not be able to part with her at all .  you are too obliging !  They were not the same , but they were , perhaps , equally good .  asked Elizabeth .  They will have no carriage , no horses , and hardly any servants ; they will keep no company , and can have no expenses of any kind !  They look upon his eyes , Filled with deep surprise ; And wondering behold A spirit armed in gold .  Besides , if she does play so very well , you know , it is no more than she is obliged to do , because she will have to teach .  He was very warmly thanked both by mother and daughter ; to escape a little from the latter , he went to the pianoforte , and begged Miss Fairfax , who was still sitting at it , to play something more .  Mr. Elton seemed very properly struck and delighted by the idea , and was repeating , `` No husbands and wives in the case at present indeed , as you observe .  By and by the little Gingerbread Boy came to a barn full of threshers .  He came back , had had his hair cut , and laughed at himself with a very good grace , but without seeming really at all ashamed of what he had done .  Lady Elliot had been an excellent woman , sensible and amiable ; whose judgement and conduct , if they might be pardoned the youthful infatuation which made her Lady Elliot , had never required indulgence afterwards. -- She had humoured , or softened , or concealed his failings , and promoted his real respectability for seventeen years ; and though not the very happiest being in the world herself , had found enough in her duties , her friends , and her children , to attach her to life , and make it no matter of indifference to her when she was called on to quit them .  You might , some time or other , be differently affected towards him .  His opinion of Louisa Musgrove 's inferiority , an opinion which he had seemed solicitous to give , his wonder at Captain Benwick , his feelings as to a first , strong attachment ; sentences begun which he could not finish , his half averted eyes and more than half expressive glance , all , all declared that he had a heart returning to her at least ; that anger , resentment , avoidance , were no more ; and that they were succeeded , not merely by friendship and regard , but by the tenderness of the past .  `` No -- he should not eat .  A very fine woman with a large fortune , in love with him !  `` I was at Norland about a month ago . ''  `` We have been engaged these four years . ''  Deeply did he repent his foolish wish .  The daughters of Mne Seraphim led round their sunny flocks , All but the youngest : she in paleness sought the secret air .  `` Yes , Mammy , '' said Epaminondas .  The poor Brahmin had to remind him , again and again , that they had asked only four .  The young ladies arrived : their appearance was by no means ungenteel or unfashionable .  Mrs Croft always met her with a kindness which gave her the pleasure of fancying herself a favourite , and on the present occasion , receiving her in that house , there was particular attention .  I have been told that you were asked to be of the party .  If he should rise to any very great honours !  cried Mary , her eyes brightening .  She rose early , and wrote her letter to Harriet ; an employment which left her so very serious , so nearly sad , that Mr. Knightley , in walking up to Hartfield to breakfast , did not arrive at all too soon ; and half an hour stolen afterwards to go over the same ground again with him , literally and figuratively , was quite necessary to reinstate her in a proper share of the happiness of the evening before .  `` Yes , your Majesty , '' said the Mouse-deer , `` but I did not mean to . ''  Dost thou know who made thee ?  Are you quite sure that you understand the terms on which Mr. Martin and Harriet now are ? ''  I had hoped that her regard for me would support her under any difficulty , and for some time it did ; but at last the misery of her situation , for she experienced great unkindness , overcame all her resolution , and though she had promised me that nothing -- but how blindly I relate !  But now I can carry her a most satisfactory account of both . ''  The intelligence however , which SHE would not give , soon flowed from another quarter .  Oh !  The real evils , indeed , of Emma 's situation were the power of having rather too much her own way , and a disposition to think a little too well of herself ; these were the disadvantages which threatened alloy to her many enjoyments .  A very few days more , and Captain Wentworth was known to be at Kellynch , and Mr Musgrove had called on him , and come back warm in his praise , and he was engaged with the Crofts to dine at Uppercross , by the end of another week .  This remark was not calculated to make Edward or Elinor more easy , nor to conciliate the good will of Lucy , who looked up at Marianne with no very benignant expression .  `` John is in such spirits today ! ''  THESE assured him that his exertion had produced an increase of good-will towards himself , and THESE gave Elinor hopes of its being farther augmented hereafter ; but Mrs. Jennings , who knew nothing of all this , who knew only that the Colonel continued as grave as ever , and that she could neither prevail on him to make the offer himself , nor commission her to make it for him , began , at the end of two days , to think that , instead of Midsummer , they would not be married till Michaelmas , and by the end of a week that it would not be a match at all .  Dick had been left ill at Gibraltar , with a recommendation from his former captain to Captain Wentworth . ''  Marianne turned away in great confusion .  In such a party , Harriet would be rather a dead weight than otherwise ; but for the poor girl herself , it seemed a peculiarly cruel necessity that was to be placing her in such a state of unmerited punishment .  Zelia and Prince Cherry fell at the fairy 's feet .  said Emma again .  `` What , indeed , ma'am !  You have hit upon the very thing to please me . ''  An arch look expressed -- '' I understand you well enough ; '' but she said only , `` Miss Fairfax is reserved . ''  `` As to that -- I do not -- ''  He declares he wo n't .  I am not prejudiced . ''  And they ran as fast as they could to the little hole where they had come in .  What other reason for the disclosure of the affair could there be , but that Elinor might be informed by it of Lucy 's superior claims on Edward , and be taught to avoid him in future ?  asked her mother .  I knew you would wish it .  He was not an ill-tempered man , not so often unreasonably cross as to deserve such a reproach ; but his temper was not his great perfection ; and , indeed , with such a worshipping wife , it was hardly possible that any natural defects in it should not be increased .  The worst of all was when men came into the wood , with sledges and teams of horses .  He had not much intercourse with any families beyond that circle ; his horror of late hours , and large dinner-parties , made him unfit for any acquaintance but such as would visit him on his own terms .  How she might have felt had there been no Captain Wentworth in the case , was not worth enquiry ; for there was a Captain Wentworth ; and be the conclusion of the present suspense good or bad , her affection would be his for ever .  `` I am disappointed , '' was his only answer .  `` That a gentleman , whom I had reason to think -- in short , that a man , whom I KNEW to be engaged -- but how shall I tell you ?  she cried , looking aghast .  She speedily comprehended all his merits ; the persuasion of his regard for Elinor perhaps assisted her penetration ; but she really felt assured of his worth : and even that quietness of manner , which militated against all her established ideas of what a young man 's address ought to be , was no longer uninteresting when she knew his heart to be warm and his temper affectionate .  said Mrs Musgrove , `` it was a lucky day for us , when you were put captain into that ship .  Since he actually was expected in the country , she must teach herself to be insensible on such points .  `` I am thankful to find that I can look with so little pain on the spot ! -- shall we ever talk on that subject , Elinor ? ''  He had been thinking it over most deeply , most intently ; he had at first hoped to induce Mr. Woodhouse to remove with her to Donwell ; he had wanted to believe it feasible , but his knowledge of Mr. Woodhouse would not suffer him to deceive himself long ; and now he confessed his persuasion , that such a transplantation would be a risk of her father 's comfort , perhaps even of his life , which must not be hazarded .  His wife was not always out of humour , nor his home always uncomfortable ; and in his breed of horses and dogs , and in sporting of every kind , he found no inconsiderable degree of domestic felicity .  `` Wait there until I come back again , '' said he .  I had reason to believe myself secure of my present wife , if I chose to address her , and I persuaded myself to think that nothing else in common prudence remained for me to do .  `` I will , then , '' said the little Red Hen , and she planted the grain of wheat .  I warrant you she is a fine size by this time . ''  You are not very gay yourself . ''  The character of Mrs. Churchill , the grief of her husband -- her mind glanced over them both with awe and compassion -- and then rested with lightened feelings on how Frank might be affected by the event , how benefited , how freed .  But at first I must confess , my vanity only was elevated by it .  Probably he is the thief himself . ''  It is downright labour to him where ladies are concerned .  Depend upon it , he would not like to have his charade slighted , much better than his passion .  `` He did not stipulate for any particular sum , my dear Fanny ; he only requested me , in general terms , to assist them , and make their situation more comfortable than it was in his power to do .  Then , and then only , under such a roof , I might perhaps be as happy at Combe as I have been at Barton . ''  I am sure it almost killed me once . ''  Nay , more , I consider it as the only form of building in which happiness is attainable , and were I rich enough I would instantly pull Combe down , and build it up again in the exact plan of this cottage . ''  `` Is she unwell ? ''  It is not fit that he should be living about at his own charge now , at lodgings and taverns . ''  He promised me the sight of a capital gun he is just going to send off ; said he would keep it unpacked to the last possible moment , that I might see it ; and if I do not turn back now , I have no chance .  CHAPTER XIV  You would have doated on her , had you gone. -- But not a word more .  And again Robert was pushed back among the serving-men .  Was it unpardonable to think it worth my while to come ?  The very thought of it made him remember the Castle of Fortune , for he knew there must be fine beds there .  The helpless worm arose and sat upon the Lillys leaf , And the bright Cloud saild on , to find his partner in the vale .  Life was very terrible to the prince , now , but he began to see that he had brought all his sorrow on himself , and he tried to bear it patiently .  Under a cruel eye outworn , The little ones spend the day In sighing and dismay .  They were real berries , and all he had got to do was to help himself .  Charles shewed himself at the window , all was ready , their visitor had bowed and was gone , the Miss Musgroves were gone too , suddenly resolving to walk to the end of the village with the sportsmen : the room was cleared , and Anne might finish her breakfast as she could .  how infinitely superior ! ''  Of course no one doubts your word , '' replied Blacky , with the utmost politeness .  `` The ladies were all at home . ''  `` For my own part , '' said he , `` I am excessively fond of a cottage ; there is always so much comfort , so much elegance about them .  A glance or two between him and his wife , convinced him that all was as right as this speech proclaimed ; and its happy effect on his spirits was immediate .  It was from Lady Middleton , announcing their arrival in Conduit Street the night before , and requesting the company of her mother and cousins the following evening .  --  She is pretty , and she is good tempered , and that is all .  It included nearly a third part of her own life .  he piped , with a great sob of disappointment .  And as for objects of interest , objects for the affections , which is in truth the great point of inferiority , the want of which is really the great evil to be avoided in _not_ marrying , I shall be very well off , with all the children of a sister I love so much , to care about .  `` Yes -- I have some right to that knowledge ; though I have never been at the place in my life. -- She is an odd woman ! -- But I never allow myself to speak ill of her , on Frank 's account ; for I do believe her to be very fond of him .  Some time afterwards it was , `` I think Mrs. Goddard would be very much surprized if she knew what had happened .  The Ducks felt so sorry for her that at last they thought of a way to take her .  I do not think they improve at all as neighbours .  Not a moment was lost in delay of any kind .  Her next beginning was ,  And the mowers could n't catch him .  After this speech he was gone as soon as possible .  He has not been forced upon any exertion .  `` Oh ! ''  The land was so very desirable for me in every respect , so immediately adjoining my own property , that I felt it my duty to buy it .  Marianne said no more , but looked exceedingly hurt .  I suppose '' ( smiling ) `` I have more pride than any of you ; but I confess it does vex me , that we should be so solicitous to have the relationship acknowledged , which we may be very sure is a matter of perfect indifference to them . ''  Anne replied , and spoke in defence of the performance so well , and yet in allowance for his feelings so pleasantly , that his countenance improved , and he replied again with almost a smile .  Little Brother Rabbit tied the rope-end to the Whale , and ran off , lippety , lippety , till he came to the place where the Elephant was .  Something so formal and arrange in her air !  `` Remember , Elinor , '' said she , `` how very often Sir John fetches our letters himself from the post , and carries them to it .  Even Emma grew tired at last of flattery and merriment , and wished herself rather walking quietly about with any of the others , or sitting almost alone , and quite unattended to , in tranquil observation of the beautiful views beneath her .  You divert me against my conscience .  `` If they were one day to be your own , Marianne , you would not be justified in what you have done . ''  So it was decided to wait .  What years of felicity that man , in all human calculation , has before him ! -- Assured of the love of such a woman -- the disinterested love , for Jane Fairfax 's character vouches for her disinterestedness ; every thing in his favour , -- equality of situation -- I mean , as far as regards society , and all the habits and manners that are important ; equality in every point but one -- and that one , since the purity of her heart is not to be doubted , such as must increase his felicity , for it will be his to bestow the only advantages she wants. -- A man would always wish to give a woman a better home than the one he takes her from ; and he who can do it , where there is no doubt of _her_ regard , must , I think , be the happiest of mortals. -- Frank Churchill is , indeed , the favourite of fortune .  May is the very month which Mrs. Churchill is ordered , or has ordered herself , to spend in some warmer place than Enscombe -- in short , to spend in London ; so that we have the agreeable prospect of frequent visits from Frank the whole spring -- precisely the season of the year which one should have chosen for it : days almost at the longest ; weather genial and pleasant , always inviting one out , and never too hot for exercise .  `` His father 's marriage , '' he said , `` had been the wisest measure , every friend must rejoice in it ; and the family from whom he had received such a blessing must be ever considered as having conferred the highest obligation on him . ''  In the middle of the stream the fox said , `` Oh , dear !  She must be attached to you , or she would not have married you .  what should hinder it ? ''  woe !  `My friend Knightley ' had been so often mentioned , that I was really impatient to see him ; and I must do my caro sposo the justice to say that he need not be ashamed of his friend .  I wonder how the young man could have the assurance to ask it .  `` Captain Wentworth is not very gallant by you , Anne , though he was so attentive to me .  They must not over-salt the leg ; and then , if it is not over-salted , and if it is very thoroughly boiled , just as Serle boils ours , and eaten very moderately of , with a boiled turnip , and a little carrot or parsnip , I do not consider it unwholesome . ''  Reddy Fox , lying flat down behind a heap of brush , held _his_ breath .  `` But , if I know myself , '' said he , `` this is from no want of gallantry towards them .  The bitter feelings occasioned by this speech , the many bitter feelings , made the utmost exertion necessary on Emma 's side , to enable her to say on reply ,  He has been opening the doors very often this evening , and keeping them open very inconsiderately .  As for all those who live in or along the Laughing Brook or in the Smiling Pool , they let Little Joe have his own way in everything .  I am not one of those who have witty things at every body 's service .  He was not Mr Wentworth , the former curate of Monkford , however suspicious appearances may be , but a Captain Frederick Wentworth , his brother , who being made commander in consequence of the action off St Domingo , and not immediately employed , had come into Somersetshire , in the summer of 1806 ; and having no parent living , found a home for half a year at Monkford .  And when they were alone together the king looked into Robert 's eyes , as he had done before , and said , softly , `` Who art thou ? ''  `` Oh !  But when they came to the town he was taken out and set upright in a tub and placed on the edge of a path in a row of other fir trees , all small , but none so little as he .  No horse was to be found .  `` Well , my dear Penelope , you need not be so alarmed about him .  He had a heart for either of the Miss Musgroves , if they could catch it ; a heart , in short , for any pleasing young woman who came in his way , excepting Anne Elliot .  The two families were so continually meeting , so much in the habit of running in and out of each other 's house at all hours , that it was rather a surprise to her to find Mary alone ; but being alone , her being unwell and out of spirits was almost a matter of course .  that I had never seen her ! ''  But that would not do .  yes , I observed it , I assure you .  `` You have something to tell me of Mr. Willoughby , that will open his character farther .  cried Mrs. Jennings ; `` Lord !  The pain of his continued residence in Highbury , however , must certainly be lessened by his marriage .  `` Frank was here in February for a fortnight . ''  `` But I have never fixed on June or any other month -- merely looked forward to the summer in general . ''  And , my dears , she sang so beautifully that the Emperor 's eyes filled up with tears !  `` Of all horrid things , leave-taking is the worst . ''  As to connexion , there Emma was perfectly easy ; persuaded , that after all his own vaunted claims and disdain of Harriet , he had done nothing .  Her insipidity was invariable , for even her spirits were always the same ; and though she did not oppose the parties arranged by her husband , provided every thing were conducted in style and her two eldest children attended her , she never appeared to receive more enjoyment from them than she might have experienced in sitting at home ; -- and so little did her presence add to the pleasure of the others , by any share in their conversation , that they were sometimes only reminded of her being amongst them by her solicitude about her troublesome boys .  It was not so yesterday , I think .  It was a valley of brown , bare , desert soil , in a climate where almost no rain falls ; but the snow on the mountain-tops sent down little streams of pure water , the winds were gentle , and lying like a blue jewel at the foot of the western hills was a marvellous lake of salt water , -- an inland sea .  He was in the Old Pasture , one edge of which touches one edge of the Green Forest .  Let her marry Robert Martin , and she is safe , respectable , and happy for ever ; but if you encourage her to expect to marry greatly , and teach her to be satisfied with nothing less than a man of consequence and large fortune , she may be a parlour-boarder at Mrs. Goddard 's all the rest of her life -- or , at least , ( for Harriet Smith is a girl who will marry somebody or other , ) till she grow desperate , and is glad to catch at the old writing-master 's son . ''  I found them most intimate friends ; and I , too , became excessively pleased with Mr Elliot , and entertained the highest opinion of him .  Before the house-maid had lit their fire the next day , or the sun gained any power over a cold , gloomy morning in January , Marianne , only half dressed , was kneeling against one of the window-seats for the sake of all the little light she could command from it , and writing as fast as a continual flow of tears would permit her .  `` It will be more painful to me in some respects to be in company with him , but I shall know better what to do .  It would be enough to make them completely easy .  When the mowers saw how fine he looked , they ran after him , calling out , `` Wait a bit !  `` Thank you .  Harriet was too much agitated to encounter him .  It is so with some men .  Where I have a regard , I always think a person well-looking .  So Frode sent for all the wise men of the land and bade them examine the stones and tell him of what use they were , since no one could grind with them .  Emma could not forgive her .  `` In a few months , my dear Marianne . ''  How so ?  I feel for him sincerely . ''  Their hours were therefore made over to Lady Middleton and the two Miss Steeles , by whom their company , in fact was as little valued , as it was professedly sought .  Farmer Brown 's boy trudged on to the next pool , and there was a puzzled frown on his freckled face .  `` But , indeed , Elinor , it is Marianne 's .  By remaining in the neighbourhood , I am become inured to it . ''  At the end of three years , the Pope called the Emperor of Allemaine and the King of Sicily , his brothers , to a great meeting in his city of Rome .  They would be estimated very differently by others as well as myself ; Mr. Martin may be the richest of the two , but he is undoubtedly her inferior as to rank in society. -- The sphere in which she moves is much above his. -- It would be a degradation . ''  I have seen a great deal of him , have studied his sentiments and heard his opinion on subjects of literature and taste ; and , upon the whole , I venture to pronounce that his mind is well-informed , enjoyment of books exceedingly great , his imagination lively , his observation just and correct , and his taste delicate and pure .  It was too pleasing a blunder for a reproach .  Captain Harville holds himself quite engaged , I 'll answer for it ; and Captain Wentworth the same , I dare say . ''  She generally thought he would come , because she generally thought he ought ; but it was a case which she could not so shape into any positive act of duty or discretion , as inevitably to defy the suggestions of very opposite feelings .  Emma allowed her father to talk -- but supplied her visitors in a much more satisfactory style , and on the present evening had particular pleasure in sending them away happy .  I must put on a few ornaments now , because it is expected of me .  It was the very event to engage those who talk most , the young and the low ; and all the youth and servants in the place were soon in the happiness of frightful news .  She played .  But the small Rid Hin was wise , She always locked her door , And in her pocket pit the key , To keep the Fox out shure .  cried Elinor .  `` So do I , '' said Mrs. Weston gently , `` very much . ''  The appearance of the little sitting-room as they entered , was tranquillity itself ; Mrs. Bates , deprived of her usual employment , slumbering on one side of the fire , Frank Churchill , at a table near her , most deedily occupied about her spectacles , and Jane Fairfax , standing with her back to them , intent on her pianoforte .  `` My dear papa , I sent the whole hind-quarter .  `` I am not fond of dinner-visiting , '' said he -- '' I never was .  Elinor , for some time after he left her , for some time even after the sound of his carriage had died away , remained too much oppressed by a crowd of ideas , widely differing in themselves , but of which sadness was the general result , to think even of her sister .  How I catch myself out !  I must feel -- I must be wretched -- and they are welcome to enjoy the consciousness of it that can . ''  'We grind for Frode Wealth and gold Abundant riches He shall behold . ' ''  They sat down to tea -- the same party round the same table -- how often it had been collected ! -- and how often had her eyes fallen on the same shrubs in the lawn , and observed the same beautiful effect of the western sun ! -- But never in such a state of spirits , never in any thing like it ; and it was with difficulty that she could summon enough of her usual self to be the attentive lady of the house , or even the attentive daughter .  The little Jackal took one look , and then he said , -- `` Thank you , Mr Alligator !  I had left her only the evening before , so fully , so firmly resolved within my self on doing right !  But I am a partial old friend . ''  In spite of all her faults , she knew she was dear to him ; might she not say , very dear ? -- When the suggestions of hope , however , which must follow here , presented themselves , she could not presume to indulge them .  She had no dread of these two months .  This is her story , and it tells why people made a monument for her .  I only smirked and bowed , and said the word `happy . '  `` Very few .  `` Not Harriet 's equal ! ''  To give such intelligence to a person who could not be interested in it , even if it were true , is not what I should expect Colonel Brandon to do . ''  I am sorry you do not happen to know Mrs .  `` Who shall answer that question ? ''  The minutiae of the business Anne could not attempt to understand ; even Captain Wentworth did not seem admitted to perfect confidence here ; but that there had been a withdrawing on the gentleman 's side , and a relenting on the lady 's , and that they were now very glad to be together again , did not admit a doubt .  `` I had no more discoveries to make than you would have as to the fashion and strength of any old pelisse , which you had seen lent about among half your acquaintance ever since you could remember , and which at last , on some very wet day , is lent to yourself .  Your needles would prick the wee Babe , and your tears are sticky . ''  But however , all that is quite out of the question -- not to be thought of or mentioned -- as to any attachment you know -- it never could be -- all that is gone by .  I shall be surprised at least if you ever received a hint of it , for I never did .  They all walked about together , to see that every thing was as it should be ; and within a few minutes were joined by the contents of another carriage , which Emma could not hear the sound of at first , without great surprize .  He killed the tiger and saved the keeper 's life .  But now I seem to feel that I may deserve him ; and that if he does chuse me , it will not be any thing so very wonderful . ''  Allow me to congratulate you on having so respectable and well-judging a friend , and to join in his wish that the living -- it is about two hundred a-year -- were much more considerable , and such as might better enable you to -- as might be more than a temporary accommodation to yourself -- such , in short , as might establish all your views of happiness . ''  How attentive she is , to think of every body ! -- Thank you , my dear , for shewing it me .  It was three weeks since she had heard at all .  The next morning brought Mr. Frank Churchill again .  But I know very well what it is ; and I know where he is too . ''  So I got Sophy to lend me a hand , and we soon shifted their quarters ; and now I am quite snug , with my little shaving glass in one corner , and another great thing that I never go near . ''  and to arrive with some degree of hope ?  With insufferable vanity had she believed herself in the secret of every body 's feelings ; with unpardonable arrogance proposed to arrange every body 's destiny .  The weather affected Mr. Woodhouse , and he could only be kept tolerably comfortable by almost ceaseless attention on his daughter 's side , and by exertions which had never cost her half so much before .  He said , `` Why are ye come out to set your battle in array ?  `` It first came into my head , '' replied Mrs Smith , `` upon finding how much you were together , and feeling it to be the most probable thing in the world to be wished for by everybody belonging to either of you ; and you may depend upon it that all your acquaintance have disposed of you in the same way .  Upon my word , Perry has restored her in a wonderful short time ! -- Oh !  Donwell and Randalls had received their invitation , and none had come for her father and herself ; and Mrs. Weston 's accounting for it with `` I suppose they will not take the liberty with you ; they know you do not dine out , '' was not quite sufficient .  Do not pity me till I saw her wan , sick looks. -- I reached Highbury at the time of day when , from my knowledge of their late breakfast hour , I was certain of a good chance of finding her alone. -- I was not disappointed ; and at last I was not disappointed either in the object of my journey .  He was a very selfish king , and very proud ; he cared more for his pleasures than for the needs of his people , and his heart was so filled with his own greatness that he had no thought for God .  You shall share its use with me .  You make the most of it , I know , '' cried Louisa , `` but if it were really so , I should do just the same in her place .  `` Where are you going ? ''  `` He is as good a sort of fellow , I believe , as ever lived , '' repeated Sir John .  Mr. Dixon 's preference of her music to her friend 's , I can answer for being very decided . ''  That is _ship_ ; -- plain as it can be. -- Now for the cream .  But it would not do ; he had not come to the point .  It would not be likely to produce that dejection of mind which frequently attended him .  A reasonable visit paid , Mr. Weston began to move. -- '' He must be going .  Now , Margery 's father put the fertiliser on the top , and then raked it into the earth .  _Page 26._ ] VI LITTLE JOE OTTER TAKES GRANDFATHER FROG 'S ADVICE Who makes an enemy a friend , To fear and worry puts an end .  `` You should have distinguished , '' replied Anne .  The poor Emperor lay , quite cold and pale , in his great big bed , with velvet curtains and tall candlesticks all about .  When the Crofts called this morning , ( they called here afterwards , did not they ?  You like Mr. Elton , papa , -- I must look about for a wife for him .  Elton ! -- no wonder that you have such a curiosity to see him . ''  I have never told you how this was brought on .  `` That is very likely .  CHAPTER XVIII  `` Merely Gowland , '' he supposed .  I am delighted to find that you can vouchsafe to let your imagination wander -- but it will not do -- very sorry to check you in your first essay -- but indeed it will not do .  But , '' ( in a deep tone , ) `` it was not done for her .  He looked at her , looked at Lady Russell , and looking again at her , replied , as if in cool deliberation --  He has a great regard for the Bateses , you know , independent of Jane Fairfax -- and is always glad to shew them attention .  `` Yes ; it is in two points offensive to me ; I have two strong grounds of objection to it .  Her ladyship 's carriage was a barouche , and did not hold more than four with any comfort .  High in the dark of the heavens the stars were beginning to twinkle , and the Angel begged some of the little ones to come down and rest upon the branches of the Fir .  In general he was judged , throughout the parishes of Donwell and Highbury , with great candour ; liberal allowances were made for the little excesses of such a handsome young man -- one who smiled so often and bowed so well ; but there was one spirit among them not to be softened , from its power of censure , by bows or smiles -- Mr. Knightley .  `` I will help you ; I will ! ''  `` And now beside thee , bleating lamb , I can lie down and sleep , Or think on Him who bore thy name , Graze after thee , and weep .  It did not appear to me that -- in short , you know , Dr Shirley must have a curate , and you had secured his promise .  There will be enough of them , in all probability , to supply every sort of sensation that declining life can need .  The people in the court liked her even better than the old Nightingale , because they could all whistle her tunes , -- which you can't do with real nightingales .  How cheerful , how animated , how suspicious , how busy their imaginations all are ! ''  You are too obliging , my dear Miss Woodhouse ; but we really must take leave .  `` Never , madam , '' cried he , affronted in his turn : `` never , I assure you .  Willoughby , he , whom only half an hour ago she had abhorred as the most worthless of men , Willoughby , in spite of all his faults , excited a degree of commiseration for the sufferings produced by them , which made her think of him as now separated for ever from her family , with a tenderness , a regret , rather in proportion , as she soon acknowledged within herself -- to his wishes than to his merits .  When they heard that , they released the lion .  I am afraid there had been some mistake ; and I wish you particularly to assure Captain Harville and Captain Wentworth , that we hope to see them both . ''  She was thinking only of the last half hour , and as they passed to their seats , her mind took a hasty range over it .  This charade ! -- If I had studied a twelvemonth , I could never have made any thing like it . ''  He told her that he had been impatient to leave the dining-room -- hated sitting long -- was always the first to move when he could -- that his father , Mr. Knightley , Mr. Cox , and Mr. Cole , were left very busy over parish business -- that as long as he had staid , however , it had been pleasant enough , as he had found them in general a set of gentlemanlike , sensible men ; and spoke so handsomely of Highbury altogether -- thought it so abundant in agreeable families -- that Emma began to feel she had been used to despise the place rather too much .  But I can not believe it of you .  replied he .  She smiled her acceptance ; and nothing less than a summons from Richmond was to take him back before the following evening .  `Have you , upon your honour ? '  That made a straight line .  Elinor gloried in his integrity ; and Marianne forgave all his offences in compassion for his punishment .  Three months , she says so , positively , as I am going to have the pleasure of reading to you .  Captain Wentworth was on the watch for them , and a chaise and four in waiting , stationed for their convenience in the lowest part of the street ; but his evident surprise and vexation at the substitution of one sister for the other , the change in his countenance , the astonishment , the expressions begun and suppressed , with which Charles was listened to , made but a mortifying reception of Anne ; or must at least convince her that she was valued only as she could be useful to Louisa .  I saw her as I came in ; she was standing in the entrance .  The Chamberlain asked the little Nightingale to come and sing for the Emperor .  `` I suppose you know , ma'am , that Mr. Ferrars is married . ''  They will be extremely glad to see you , I am sure ; and one of my servants shall go with you to shew you the way . ''  `` The minute you touch the cheese with your teeth something comes down on your head hard , and you 're dead . ''  `` Well , then , when will you come back again ? ''  `` Come and get it . ''  `` No , not at Randalls ; I have not been near Randalls , '' when the door was thrown open , and Miss Bates and Miss Fairfax walked into the room .  I assure you , Mr Elliot had not the share which you have been supposing , in whatever pleasure the concert of last night might afford : not Mr Elliot ; it is not Mr Elliot that -- ''  There he had not always the patience that could have been wished .  But it was neither in Elinor 's power , nor in her wish , to rouse such feelings in another , by her retailed explanation , as had at first been called forth in herself .  I saw that my own feelings had prepared my sufferings , and that my want of fortitude under them had almost led me to the grave .  Of course , that meant that he could n't run away , which was the thing of all things he most wanted to do , for big as he is and strong as he is , Buster is very shy and bashful when human beings are around .  `` Only give me a hearing .  To hear those beautiful lines which have frequently almost driven me wild , pronounced with such impenetrable calmness , such dreadful indifference ! ''  She must not walk . ''  She was always having a glimpse of him somewhere or other .  The absolute necessity of seeming like herself produced then an immediate struggle ; but after a while she could do no more .  I wish I had looked at him more .  To Elinor , the observation of the latter was particularly grateful .  There ought to be some up in the Old Pasture .  But , it had better not be attempted , perhaps . ''  How the trampers might have behaved , had the young ladies been more courageous , must be doubtful ; but such an invitation for attack could not be resisted ; and Harriet was soon assailed by half a dozen children , headed by a stout woman and a great boy , all clamorous , and impertinent in look , though not absolutely in word. -- More and more frightened , she immediately promised them money , and taking out her purse , gave them a shilling , and begged them not to want more , or to use her ill. -- She was then able to walk , though but slowly , and was moving away -- but her terror and her purse were too tempting , and she was followed , or rather surrounded , by the whole gang , demanding more .  He put the letter into Elinor 's hands .  There was no doubt about it , for with the yell Farmer Brown 's boy turned and ran for home , as no one ever had seen him run before .  All her impatience to be at home again now returned ; her mother was dearer to her than ever ; dearer through the very excess of her mistaken confidence in Willoughby , and she was wildly urgent to be gone .  The heat was excessive ; he had never suffered any thing like it -- almost wished he had staid at home -- nothing killed him like heat -- he could bear any degree of cold , etc. , but heat was intolerable -- and he sat down , at the greatest possible distance from the slight remains of Mr. Woodhouse 's fire , looking very deplorable .  For the comfort of her children , had she consulted only her own wishes , she would have kept it ; but the discretion of Elinor prevailed .  When there , at her own particular request , for she was impatient to pour forth her thanks to him for fetching her mother , Colonel Brandon was invited to visit her .  Each one caught up his little coat and things and began to put them on .  And a delightful dance it was to be .  added Sir John .  You have not heard all that you ought to hear .  Margery looked .  It could not be very lasting , however .  said the Whale .  A word , a look , will be enough to decide whether I enter your father 's house this evening or never . ''  She was assisted , however , by that perfect indifference and apparent unconsciousness , among the only three of her own friends in the secret of the past , which seemed almost to deny any recollection of it .  Mrs. Ferrars is a charming woman , and so is your sister .  `` Lessening , I understand , '' replied Mrs Smith .  he is ruined for ever .  It made her animated -- open hearted -- she voluntarily said ; --  This was drawn at the Cape .  In great fright , the boy ran for help .  The necessity of concealing from her mother and Marianne , what had been entrusted in confidence to herself , though it obliged her to unceasing exertion , was no aggravation of Elinor 's distress .  What a blow upon them all was this !  No positive engagement indeed !  It was no more than the principals were prepared for ; they had calculated from the time of its being known at Randalls , how soon it would be over Highbury ; and were thinking of themselves , as the evening wonder in many a family circle , with great sagacity .  So he ran toward the village crying out , with all his might , -- `` Wolf !  THE BOOK of THEL  I suppose there is not a man in such practice anywhere .  It must not be , if by any fair interference of friendship , any representations from one who had almost a mother 's love , and mother 's rights , it would be prevented .  Mrs. Jennings , who had watched them with pleasure while they were talking , and who expected to see the effect of Miss Dashwood 's communication , in such an instantaneous gaiety on Colonel Brandon 's side , as might have become a man in the bloom of youth , of hope and happiness , saw him , with amazement , remain the whole evening more serious and thoughtful than usual .  This is what happened .  The Cloud descended and the Lily bowd her modest head : And went to mind her numerous charge among the verdant grass .  And his person , his manners too , are all in his favour .  He will have her at last ; aye , that he will .  `` Have you any idea of Mr. Knightley 's returning your affection ? ''  There was no reason to suppose Mr. Elton thought at all differently from his wife .  `` Pray , Mr. Knightley , '' said Emma , who had been smiling to herself through a great part of this speech , `` how do you know that Mr. Martin did not speak yesterday ? ''  If she is ill I should be sorry to do her injustice ; but there are some traits in her character which make it difficult for me to speak of her with the forbearance I could wish .  When is it to take place ? ''  Then , remembering Colonel Brandon , reproved herself , felt that to HIS sufferings and his constancy far more than to his rival 's , the reward of her sister was due , and wished any thing rather than Mrs. Willoughby 's death .  I believe in a true analogy between our bodily frames and our mental ; and that as our bodies are the strongest , so are our feelings ; capable of bearing most rough usage , and riding out the heaviest weather . ''  They will tell me I should write to the Doctor , to get Edward the curacy of his new living .  `` Oh , dear , '' she sobbed , `` I wish I could do things right !  You would not like to leave him yourself , but you see I can be of no use .  `` And I assure you , Mr. Weston , I have very little doubt that my opinion will be decidedly in his favour .  La !  Hartfield will only put her out of conceit with all the other places she belongs to .  It succeeded , however ; and though Sir Walter must ever look with an evil eye on anyone intending to inhabit that house , and think them infinitely too well off in being permitted to rent it on the highest terms , he was talked into allowing Mr Shepherd to proceed in the treaty , and authorising him to wait on Admiral Croft , who still remained at Taunton , and fix a day for the house being seen .  `` Oh !  Elinor could hardly keep her countenance as she assented to the hardship of such an obligation .  She is a monstrous lucky girl to get him , upon my honour ; not but that he is much more lucky in getting her , because she is so very handsome and agreeable , that nothing can be good enough for her .  There was nothing in any of the party which could recommend them as companions to the Dashwoods ; but the cold insipidity of Lady Middleton was so particularly repulsive , that in comparison of it the gravity of Colonel Brandon , and even the boisterous mirth of Sir John and his mother-in-law was interesting .  This delay on the Colonel 's side , however , did not seem to offend or mortify his fair companion in the least , for on their breaking up the conference soon afterwards , and moving different ways , Mrs. Jennings very plainly heard Elinor say , and with a voice which shewed her to feel what she said ,  The Lion is dead !  We all wish her extremely happy ; and Mrs. Ferrars 's conduct throughout the whole , has been such as every conscientious , good mother , in like circumstances , would adopt .  it shews what a sad invalid I am !  But , unfortunately -- in short , if your compassion does not stand my friend -- ''  THE CLOD AND THE PEBBLE `` Love seeketh not itself to please , Nor for itself hath any care , But for another gives it ease , And builds a heaven in hell 's despair . ''  Many a time has Selina said , when she has been going to Bristol , `I really can not get this girl to move from the house .  `` Worse than I had supposed .  Never had the exquisite sight , smell , sensation of nature , tranquil , warm , and brilliant after a storm , been more attractive to her .  And the little Jackal was drowned , for his sins , but the Camel came safely home .  She has been gone longer already than she intended . ''  He had never been in the room at the Crown in his life -- did not know the people who kept it by sight. -- Oh !  she thought .  There he had seen everything to exalt in his estimation the woman he had lost ; and there begun to deplore the pride , the folly , the madness of resentment , which had kept him from trying to regain her when thrown in his way .  Hitherto I fancy you and I are the only people to whom his looks and manners have explained themselves . ''  CHAPTER XVII  Margery leaned down and looked with all her eyes at the baby plants .  `` Thank you .  She thought the calendula must be a strange , grand flower , by its name ; but her mother told her it was the gay , sturdy , everydayish little flower called a marigold .  `` How is Mary looking ? ''  Miss Dashwood , you can not have an idea of the comfort it gives me to look back on my own misery .  So Buster brought this habit of talking to himself down to the Green Forest , where he had many more neighbors than he had in the Great Woods .  Emma spoke with a very proper degree of pleasure ; and fully assented to his proposition of Mr. Frank Churchill and Miss Smith making their party quite complete .  He seems every thing the fondest parent could .  Giving to those that can not crave , the voiceless , the o'er tired The breath doth nourish the innocent lamb , he smells the milky garments He crops thy flowers while thou sittest smiling in his face , Wiping his mild and meekin mouth from all contagious taints .  You have been here only to be useful .  And little Brother Rabbit sat in the bushes and laughed , and laughed , and laughed .  Emma said it would be awkward ; Mrs. Weston was in distress about the supper ; and Mr. Woodhouse opposed it earnestly , on the score of health .  do you recommend this side ? -- Well , I am sure , Mr. Churchill -- only it seems too good -- but just as you please .  I dare say , Miss Fairfax , that he either gave his friend very minute directions , or wrote to Broadwood himself .  I will tell you why she is out of spirits .  Could she but have given Harriet her feelings about it all !  `` No , ma'am , only they two . ''  Her father fondly replied , `` Ah !  He then hastily took leave of them all and left the room .  It did not surprise , but it grieved Anne to observe that Elizabeth would not know him .  But before she was half way upstairs she heard the parlour door open , and , turning round , was astonished to see Edward himself come out .  She was in the carriage , and felt that he had placed her there , that his will and his hands had done it , that she owed it to his perception of her fatigue , and his resolution to give her rest .  If you do not call early it will be a slight . ''  `` Ah !  just behind .  To Highbury in general it brought no material change .  I made the match , you know , four years ago ; and to have it take place , and be proved in the right , when so many people said Mr. Weston would never marry again , may comfort me for any thing . ''  In so large a party it was not necessary that Emma should approach her .  He was determined to make it by marriage .  It is the statue of a woman , sitting in a low chair , with her arms around a child , who leans against her .  I assure you they are very genteel people .  How came they acquainted ? ''  A walk before breakfast does me good . ''  She promised to think of it , and advised him to think of it more ; but he was fully convinced , that no reflection could alter his wishes or his opinion on the subject .  They are very well behaved , good kind of girls ; and I think the attention is due to them , as their uncle did so very well by Edward .  I thought -- but I beg your pardon , perhaps I have been under a mistake .  -- If he would say so to her at once , in the tone of decision becoming a man , there would be no opposition made to his going . ''  The first month after their marriage was spent with their friend at the Mansion-house ; from whence they could superintend the progress of the Parsonage , and direct every thing as they liked on the spot ; -- could chuse papers , project shrubberies , and invent a sweep .  `` What !  `` We did , indeed , particularly so when he first arrived . ''  Now if there is any one thing that Buster Bear had rather have above another , it is all the berries he can eat , unless it be honey .  A very little quiet reflection was enough to satisfy Emma as to the nature of her agitation on hearing this news of Frank Churchill .  The Clod of Clay heard the Worms voice & rais 'd her pitying head : She bowd over the weeping infant , and her life exhald In milky fondness , then on Thel she fix 'd her humble eyes  So the little Field Mouse gave the tiny necklace to his little Mouse-sister .  I found Harriet more conversable than I expected . ''  I never wish to offend , but I am so foolishly shy , that I often seem negligent , when I am only kept back by my natural awkwardness .  He wished to avoid seeing her .  `` I know how highly you think of Jane Fairfax , '' said Emma .  `` But perhaps the abuse of such people as yourself and Marianne will make amends for the regard of Lady Middleton and her mother .  `` Old Lady Mary Maclean ?  you are acquainted with him ? ''  They _shall_ talk .  madam , '' cried Emma , `` if other children are at all like what I remember to have been myself , I should think five times the amount of what I have ever yet heard named as a salary on such occasions , dearly earned . ''  He will think all the happiness , all the advantage , on your side of the question ; all the merit on mine .  The Tiger sprang to eat the Brahmin , but the Brahmin said , -- `` Wait , wait ; we have asked only one .  `` No , '' said Mr. Knightley , nearly at the same time ; `` you are not often deficient ; not often deficient either in manner or comprehension .  `` I hope I am as fond of my child as any mother , but I do not know that I am of any more use in the sick-room than Charles , for I can not be always scolding and teazing the poor child when it is ill ; and you saw , this morning , that if I told him to keep quiet , he was sure to begin kicking about .  `` It is .  `` You are very right ; it has been thought of .  Just like her !  High hills rose immediately behind , and at no great distance on each side ; some of which were open downs , the others cultivated and woody .  Some people are surprized , I believe , that the eldest was not , but Isabella would have him called Henry , which I thought very pretty of her .  And now she was very conscious that she ought to have prevented them. -- She felt that she had been risking her friend 's happiness on most insufficient grounds .  It was a bad beginning for a beautiful day and Little Joe knew it .  If there is anything disagreeable going on men are always sure to get out of it , and Charles is as bad as any of them .  Sir Walter had taken a very good house in Camden Place , a lofty dignified situation , such as becomes a man of consequence ; and both he and Elizabeth were settled there , much to their satisfaction .  Mrs. Jennings was delighted with her gratitude , and only wondered that after hearing such a sentence , the Colonel should be able to take leave of them , as he immediately did , with the utmost sang-froid , and go away without making her any reply ! -- She had not thought her old friend could have made so indifferent a suitor .  At last --  When you and the Middletons are gone , we shall go on so quietly and happily together with our books and our music !  I know we agreed never to name him -- but considering how infinitely superior he is to every body else , I should not have thought it possible that I could be supposed to mean any other person .  I have a note of his. -- Do not you remember , Mrs. Weston , employing him to write for you one day ? ''  Selina says it is quite horror to her -- and I believe I have caught a little of her nicety .  or a mermaid ?  Her heart was devoted to Willoughby , and the fond attachment to Norland , which she brought with her from Sussex , was more likely to be softened than she had thought it possible before , by the charms which his society bestowed on her present home .  And at Lyme too , only seventeen miles off , he would be near enough to hear , if people thought there was anything to complain of . ''  Mr. Knightley , always so kind , so feeling , so truly considerate for every body , would never deserve to be less worshipped than now ; and it really was too much to hope even of Harriet , that she could be in love with more than _three_ men in one year .  Her fortune was large , and our family estate much encumbered .  `` You have not been able to bring your sister over to your plan of general civility , '' said Edward to Elinor , `` Do you gain no ground ? ''  no , no '' -- cried Emma , laughing as carelessly as she could -- `` Upon no account in the world .  All looked up to them .  This was handsome , and gave her more pleasure than almost anything else could have done .  `` `Mr .  `` What is the matter , dear ? ''  As she spoke , she placed a small gold ring on the prince 's little finger .  How , in all the peculiar disadvantages of their respective situations , would he ever learn of her real sentiments ?  -- '' The best of all .  `` He opened his whole heart to me yesterday as we travelled .  It can be allowable only as the thought of the moment . ''  `` That 's telling , '' said he .  The little Country Mouse stopped and said , `` What is a trap ? ''  It will be so ridiculous to see all his letters directed to him with an M.P. -- But do you know , he says , he will never frank for me ?  It did not happen to suit the Miss Musgroves , I suppose , and they never put themselves out of their way . ''  `` Months ! ''  She could not even thank him .  She seemed bent on giving no real insight into Mr. Dixon 's character , or her own value for his company , or opinion of the suitableness of the match .  I never saw such a likeness in my life .  The next night the little Larks were quite trembling with fear ; the moment their mother got home they cried out , `` Mother , you must surely move us to-night !  `` Good enough !  `` Cautious , very cautious , '' thought Emma ; `` he advances inch by inch , and will hazard nothing till he believes himself secure . ''  No letter of condolence had been sent to Ireland .  She was not struck by any thing remarkably clever in Miss Smith 's conversation , but she found her altogether very engaging -- not inconveniently shy , not unwilling to talk -- and yet so far from pushing , shewing so proper and becoming a deference , seeming so pleasantly grateful for being admitted to Hartfield , and so artlessly impressed by the appearance of every thing in so superior a style to what she had been used to , that she must have good sense , and deserve encouragement .  `` If you mean Miss Fairfax and Frank Churchill , I have heard that already . ''  `` But you would not wish me to come away before I am tired , papa ? ''  Do help me .  You will be adored in Highbury .  We can not give any body the disagreeable hints that we may have been very full of the hour before .  But I am quite in the minority , I believe ; few people seem to value simplicity of dress , -- show and finery are every thing .  The lady could not but yield to such joint entreaties , and promise to stay .  Come on a donkey , however , if you prefer it .  Dear , sweet Louisa ! ''  He knows it to be so , by his promises and messages ; but if he wished to do it , it might be done .  And when he saw them , that naughty Little Jack Rollaround began to tease .  I honour that part of the attention particularly ; it shews it to have been so thoroughly from the heart .  I have some notion of putting such a trimming as this to my white and silver poplin .  She looked again .  But that was not enough ; for when people are determined on a mode of conduct which they know to be wrong , they feel injured by the expectation of any thing better from them .  He asked me to a party , a dance at his house in the evening. -- Had he NOT told me as an inducement that you and your sister were to be there , I should have felt it too certain a thing , to trust myself near him .  weep !  She began to think that be must be in liquor ; -- the strangeness of such a visit , and of such manners , seemed no otherwise intelligible ; and with this impression she immediately rose , saying ,  Mother and father and Margery were late to supper that evening .  But why must she consent to be with the Eltons ? -- Here is quite a separate puzzle . ''  `` Do not blame him , however , for departing from his character , where the deviation is necessary .  `` Well then , another day or two , perhaps ; but I can not stay here long , I can not stay to endure the questions and remarks of all these people .  the good Bateses -- I am quite ashamed of myself -- but you mention them in most of your letters .  cried Lucy , who generally made an amendment to all her sister 's assertions .  They had not remained in this manner long , before Elinor perceived Willoughby , standing within a few yards of them , in earnest conversation with a very fashionable looking young woman .  `` Lost in desert wild Is your little child .  He left me not half an hour ago . ''  In the far-off land of France , they say , Still do they live to this very day .  `` I thought he meant to try his skill , by his manner of declining it yesterday . ''  He knew very well that the old grass would begin to come through again on such soil , and that it would make terribly hard weeding .  It so happened that while her two sisters with Mrs. Jennings were first calling on her in Harley Street , another of her acquaintance had dropt in -- a circumstance in itself not apparently likely to produce evil to her .  The dews of a summer evening are what I would not expose any body to .  `` But have you really heard of nothing ? ''  `` Mr. Perry , '' said he , in a voice of very strong displeasure , `` would do as well to keep his opinion till it is asked for .  Their presence was a restraint both on her and on Lucy .  She was still looking at him with the most speaking amazement .  With all my heart .  How cold , how composed were their last adieus !  `` This is full of papers belonging to him , to my husband ; a small portion only of what I had to look over when I lost him .  We will put it by , that when he comes again ... But it may be months , perhaps , before THAT happens . ''  Perhaps it was not fair to expect him to feel how very much he was her inferior in talent , and all the elegancies of mind .  It seemed perfectly harmless .  `` Oh God !  With all the eagerness which such a transition gives , Emma resolved to be out of doors as soon as possible .  She thought of what had just passed with anxiety and distrust .  `` Oh no , no !  We feel things differently .  This had happened the year before .  It happened that I did not read it for myself or hear it again during my childhood .  In a few minutes , however , Marianne was recovered enough to put an end to the bustle , and sit down among the rest ; though her spirits retained the impression of what had passed , the whole evening .  `` Conjecture -- aye , sometimes one conjectures right , and sometimes one conjectures wrong .  cried Little Joe Otter .  `` Nothing can be going on better than the child , '' said he ; `` so I told my father , just now , that I would come , and he thought me quite right .  She is rather done for this morning , and must not go so far without help , and I ought to be at that fellow 's in the Market Place .  Marianne , who had seen him from the window , and who hated company of any kind , left the room before he entered it .  After securing accommodations , and ordering a dinner at one of the inns , the next thing to be done was unquestionably to walk directly down to the sea .  She had weathered it , however , and could truly say that it had done her good .  She had no doubt as to his being less in love -- but neither his agitated spirits , nor his hurrying away , seemed like a perfect cure ; and she was rather inclined to think it implied a dread of her returning power , and a discreet resolution of not trusting himself with her long .  `` My dear Mrs Smith , Mr Elliot 's wife has not been dead much above half a year .  `` Emma has been meaning to read more ever since she was twelve years old .  She rated Lady Russell 's influence highly ; and as to the severe degree of self-denial which her own conscience prompted , she believed there might be little more difficulty in persuading them to a complete , than to half a reformation .  Before they were beyond her hearing , however , Louisa spoke again .  He proceeded a little farther , reading to himself ; and then , with a smile , observed , `` Humph !  So the old Fox hid behind the wood-pile , and as soon as she bent down to get a stick , into the house he slipped , and scurried behind the door .  Then , one morning , while she was searching for signs of other seeds , Margery discovered the beets .  Many a noble fortune has been made during the war .  No intercourse with Harriet possible but by note ; no church for her on Sunday any more than on Christmas Day ; and no need to find excuses for Mr. Elton 's absenting himself .  `` A beast , a beast ! ''  Every thing he did , was right .  Every invitation was successful .  Chapter 13  You find me trying to be useful ; tell me if you think I shall succeed . ''  That young man ( speaking lower ) is very thoughtless .  They dared not pick flaws in the portrait statue , for the prince had declared it perfect .  The intermediate month was the one fixed on , as far as they dared , by Emma and Mr .  Anne was still in the lane ; and though instinctively beginning to decline , she was not allowed to proceed .  `` And if the Dixons should absolutely deny all knowledge of it we must conclude it to come from the Campbells . ''  `` So you and I are to be left to shift by ourselves , with this poor sick child ; and not a creature coming near us all the evening !  THE FLY Little Fly , Thy summer 's play My thoughtless hand Has brushed away .  `` You 'll find it out one of these fine days ! ''  `` Woof , woof ! ''  Colonel Campbell rather preferred an olive .  `` Nay , why do you ? ''  Her sister , though comparatively but little removed by matrimony , being settled in London , only sixteen miles off , was much beyond her daily reach ; and many a long October and November evening must be struggled through at Hartfield , before Christmas brought the next visit from Isabella and her husband , and their little children , to fill the house , and give her pleasant society again .  I only mean that if Mr Elliot should some time hence pay his addresses to you , and if you should be disposed to accept him , I think there would be every possibility of your being happy together .  Hitherto there had been but one opinion of Captain Wentworth among the Musgroves and their dependencies .  `Forty , ' replied Sir Basil , `forty , and no more . '  In general , it was a very well approved match .  Why does not he try Bath ? -- Indeed he should .  It was then about twelve o'clock , and she returned to her sister 's apartment to wait for the arrival of the apothecary , and to watch by her the rest of the night .  `` We will write the letter we were talking of , Harville , now , if you will give me materials . ''  The dread of such a failure after all became the prominent uneasiness ; and when Harriet appeared , and in very good spirits , and without having any such reason to give for her long absence , she felt a satisfaction which settled her with her own mind , and convinced her , that let Mr. Knightley think or say what he would , she had done nothing which woman 's friendship and woman 's feelings would not justify .  I began to think I should never see you .  said she , on his taking Miss Steeles 's pocket handkerchief , and throwing it out of window -- '' He is full of monkey tricks . ''  She was a benevolent , charitable , good woman , and capable of strong attachments , most correct in her conduct , strict in her notions of decorum , and with manners that were held a standard of good-breeding .  A very proper compliment ! -- and then follows the application , which I think , my dear Harriet , you can not find much difficulty in comprehending .  More than seven years were gone since this little history of sorrowful interest had reached its close ; and time had softened down much , perhaps nearly all of peculiar attachment to him , but she had been too dependent on time alone ; no aid had been given in change of place ( except in one visit to Bath soon after the rupture ) , or in any novelty or enlargement of society .  replied he .  Nothing was wanting on Mrs. Palmer 's side that constant and friendly good humour could do , to make them feel themselves welcome .  As my mother-in-law 's relations , I shall be happy to show them every respect .  And as to the house being a bad one , I do not know what the Colonel would be at , for it is as good a one as ever I saw . ''  Trust Peter for that !  `` Let me see , let me see , what is there to tempt my appetite ? ''  She could imagine what Louisa was feeling .  `` We had better not talk about it , my dear , '' replied Mrs Croft , pleasantly ; `` for if Miss Elliot were to hear how soon we came to an understanding , she would never be persuaded that we could be happy together .  `` Edward talks of going to Oxford soon , '' said she ; `` but now he is lodging at No .  Why , he is down here every year . ''  Edward 's embarrassment lasted some time , and it ended in an absence of mind still more settled .  An old married man -- quite good for nothing .  They had a concert bill between them .  So I piped with merry cheer .  But the usual fate of Anne attended her , in having something very opposite from her inclination fixed on .  I could not trace her beyond her first seducer , and there was every reason to fear that she had removed from him only to sink deeper in a life of sin .  After that second yell he just stood still and stared .  The contrast between Mrs. Churchill 's importance in the world , and Jane Fairfax 's , struck her ; one was every thing , the other nothing -- and she sat musing on the difference of woman 's destiny , and quite unconscious on what her eyes were fixed , till roused by Miss Bates 's saying ,  `` Yes , why should I stay here ?  They might be more safely held up as a pattern .  `` He knew nothing about it , Emma .  cried Emma , collecting herself resolutely -- '' Let us understand each other now , without the possibility of farther mistake .  `` Aye , very true .  There is a great deal more to know about Brahmins , but that is enough for the story .  I ought to have known enough to keep my head out of it , '' he said slowly and thoughtfully .  `` Let us think of those among our absent friends who are more cheerfully employed , '' cried Emma .  If she can hesitate as to `Yes , ' she ought to say `No ' directly .  `` I never read one more to the purpose , certainly . ''  Marianne was going to retort , but she remembered her promises , and forbore .  These were very cheering thoughts ; and the sight of a great deal of snow on the ground did her further service , for any thing was welcome that might justify their all three being quite asunder at present .  When the corn was ripe the mother Lark watched very carefully to see if there were any sign of the reapers ' coming , for she knew that when they came their sharp knives would cut down the nest and hurt the baby Larks .  As soon , however , as the consciousness of all this was forced by continual repetition on Marianne , she could stay no longer .  My object -- my wish -- my sole wish in desiring it -- I hope , I believe it is -- is to be a means of giving comfort ; -- no , I must not say comfort -- not present comfort -- but conviction , lasting conviction to your sister 's mind .  I shall have done in five minutes . ''  And he wrote as if he really loved her very much -- but she did not know -- and so , she was come as fast as she could to ask Miss Woodhouse what she should do. -- '' Emma was half-ashamed of her friend for seeming so pleased and so doubtful .  Elinor resolving to exert herself , though fearing the sound of her own voice , now said ,  Sweet smiles , mother 's smile , All the livelong night beguile .  It was very lucky , for I would not have had poor James think himself slighted upon any account ; and I am sure she will make a very good servant : she is a civil , pretty-spoken girl ; I have a great opinion of her .  I should not wonder , if he was to be in the greatest passion ! -- and Mr. Donavan thinks just the same .  Mrs Croft was taking leave .  `` The language , I know , is highly disrespectful .  The carriage came : and Mr. Woodhouse , always the first object on such occasions , was carefully attended to his own by Mr. Knightley and Mr. Weston ; but not all that either could say could prevent some renewal of alarm at the sight of the snow which had actually fallen , and the discovery of a much darker night than he had been prepared for .  As it grew hotter and hotter , the man unfastened his cloak ; then he threw it back ; at last he took it off !  `` Oho !  `` You surprise me very much .  `` I want to think it over .  `` What a very ungrateful bird ! ''  He had been there for four-and-twenty hours .  Some laughed , and answered good-humouredly .  A few awkward moments passed , and he sat down again ; and in a more determined manner said ,  In a long strip of meadow land , where there was ample space for all , they were thus divided , forming three distinct parties ; and to that party of the three which boasted least animation , and least complaisance , Anne necessarily belonged .  `` Yes -- it seems to depend upon nothing but the ill-humour of Mrs. Churchill , which I imagine to be the most certain thing in the world . ''  Are you , indeed , going there ?  Did you ever hear any thing so strange ?  Now the Old Pasture is very large .  `` My dearest papa !  `` Oh , do n't think of me ! ''  I am sure , for my part , I should never have known he DID like it better than any other colour , if he had not happened to say so .  Will you be so good as to tell him that the living of Delaford , now just vacant , as I am informed by this day 's post , is his , if he think it worth his acceptance -- but THAT , perhaps , so unfortunately circumstanced as he is now , it may be nonsense to appear to doubt ; I only wish it were more valuable. -- It is a rectory , but a small one ; the late incumbent , I believe , did not make more than 200 L per annum , and though it is certainly capable of improvement , I fear , not to such an amount as to afford him a very comfortable income .  She heard it all under embellishment .  In the course of the same morning , Anne and her father chancing to be alone together , he began to compliment her on her improved looks ; he thought her `` less thin in her person , in her cheeks ; her skin , her complexion , greatly improved ; clearer , fresher .  `` I can never think of it , '' she cried , `` without extreme shame . ''  Nothing in my opinion has ever passed to justify doubt ; no secrecy has been attempted ; all has been uniformly open and unreserved .  Marianne had left the room before the conversation began .  There is no use in delay .  Alas !  no friends ?  Her daughter enjoyed a most uncommon degree of popularity for a woman neither young , handsome , rich , nor married .  -- Here was a sly glance at Emma .  `` Indeed , my dear Mrs Smith , I want none , '' cried Anne .  Cruel , jealous , selfish fear !  Mr and Mrs Musgrove took me , and we were so crowded !  Now Mary , I declare it was so , I heard it myself , and you were in the other room .  And Marianne was in spirits ; happy in the mildness of the weather , and still happier in her expectation of a frost .  Are you going near Camden Place ?  `` Elinor , I must go home .  One day , after the forty years , he had a great longing to know how far along he had got with his work , -- how it looked to the Heavenly Father .  Men are very safe with us , let them be ever so rich .  they were infinitely worse .  I know what worthy people they are .  Another meeting will suffice to explain his sentiments on picturesque beauty , and second marriages , and then you can have nothing farther to ask . ''  He begged to be shewn the house which his father had lived in so long , and which had been the home of his father 's father ; and on recollecting that an old woman who had nursed him was still living , walked in quest of her cottage from one end of the street to the other ; and though in some points of pursuit or observation there was no positive merit , they shewed , altogether , a good-will towards Highbury in general , which must be very like a merit to those he was with .  .  I hope your father and mother are quite happy with regard to both . ''  `` It was my friend Mrs Rooke ; Nurse Rooke ; who , by-the-bye , had a great curiosity to see you , and was delighted to be in the way to let you in .  My aunt always sends me off when she is shopping .  `` Then , '' said little Brother Rabbit , `` I will tie one end of this long rope to your trunk , and the other to my cow , and as soon as I have tied her tightly I will beat my big drum .  He will be here in a moment , I am sure . ''  The pain of being obliged to practise concealment towards him , was very little inferior to the pain of having made Harriet unhappy .  To her dress and appearance she was grown so perfectly indifferent , as not to bestow half the consideration on it , during the whole of her toilet , which it received from Miss Steele in the first five minutes of their being together , when it was finished .  Her visit to Abbey-Mill , this summer , seems to have done his business .  Fortunately he had a younger brother who was more promising .  He would mention no names now ; but such , he could assure her , had been the fact .  And with a quivering lip he wound up the whole by adding , `` Poor Fanny !  She had hardly spoken the words when Mr Elliot walked in .  Such a scoundrel of a fellow !  My dear Isabella , I have not heard you make one inquiry about Mr. Perry yet ; and he never forgets you . ''  He admires as a lover , not as a connoisseur .  Mrs. Perry had told somebody , and was extremely happy about it .  A man is in greater danger in the navy of being insulted by the rise of one whose father , his father might have disdained to speak to , and of becoming prematurely an object of disgust himself , than in any other line .  But what did such particulars explain ? -- The fact was , as Emma could now acknowledge , that Harriet had always liked Robert Martin ; and that his continuing to love her had been irresistible. -- Beyond this , it must ever be unintelligible to Emma .  You will say that I am quite an invalid , and go no where , and therefore must decline their obliging invitation ; beginning with my _compliments_ , of course .  If Louisa Musgrove would be beautiful and happy in her November of life , she will cherish all her present powers of mind . ''  Lady Russell had another excellent one at hand , for being extremely glad that Sir Walter and his family were to remove from the country .  `` Indeed ! ''  A narrow passage led directly through the house into the garden behind .  `` I wrote to him , my love , last week , and rather expect to see , than to hear from him again .  She could tell nothing of Hartfield , in which Mrs. Weston had not a lively concern ; and half an hour 's uninterrupted communication of all those little matters on which the daily happiness of private life depends , was one of the first gratifications of each .  Elinor 's heart could easily account for his not putting himself forward ; and Mrs. Dashwood probably found the same explanation .  She was not less pleased another day with the manner in which he seconded a sudden wish of hers , to have Harriet 's picture .  Delightful , charming , superior , first circles , spheres , lines , ranks , every thing -- and Mrs. Elton was wild to have the offer closed with immediately. -- On her side , all was warmth , energy , and triumph -- and she positively refused to take her friend 's negative , though Miss Fairfax continued to assure her that she would not at present engage in any thing , repeating the same motives which she had been heard to urge before. -- Still Mrs. Elton insisted on being authorised to write an acquiescence by the morrow 's post. -- How Jane could bear it at all , was astonishing to Emma. -- She did look vexed , she did speak pointedly -- and at last , with a decision of action unusual to her , proposed a removal. -- `` Should not they walk ?  He is a clever man , a reading man ; and I confess , that I do consider his attaching himself to her with some surprise .  `` There 's no other lion in this jungle , and you know it ! ''  declared Little Joe .  Oh !  Was not the very sight of the friend who sat behind you , was not the recollection of what had been , the knowledge of her influence , the indelible , immoveable impression of what persuasion had once done -- was it not all against me ? ''  open !  `` Yes ; my father is to join me here : we shall walk back together , and I must be off immediately .  Anne had never seen her father and sister before in contact with nobility , and she must acknowledge herself disappointed .  It was not the gipsies -- it was not Mr. Frank Churchill that I meant .  He had left the country in consequence .  But Charles is so positive !  It would be a pity to be divided , and we should be losing Miss Anne , too , if there is a party at her father 's ; and I am sure neither Henrietta nor I should care at all for the play , if Miss Anne could not be with us . ''  She was well paid for her impudence .  Here I am , you see , staring at a picture .  Nice and quiet shure she was , And nivir did any harrum ; She lived alane all be herself , And worked upon her farrum .  But every night when you are quite alone , I will come and sit in the window and sing to you , and tell you everything that goes on in your kingdom : I will tell you where the poor people are who ought to be helped , and where the wicked people are who ought to be punished .  `` Perhaps the prince is not dead . ''  Anne Elliot , with all her claims of birth , beauty , and mind , to throw herself away at nineteen ; involve herself at nineteen in an engagement with a young man , who had nothing but himself to recommend him , and no hopes of attaining affluence , but in the chances of a most uncertain profession , and no connexions to secure even his farther rise in the profession , would be , indeed , a throwing away , which she grieved to think of !  said Mrs. Dashwood .  Lady Russell was most anxiously zealous on the subject , and gave it much serious consideration .  The world had made him extravagant and vain -- Extravagance and vanity had made him cold-hearted and selfish .  Brandon is one of them .  I will bring friends with me . ''  Marianne looked very grave and said nothing .  She went on , however .  for myself , I protest I must be excused , '' said Mrs. Elton ; `` _I_ really can not attempt -- I am not at all fond of the sort of thing .  I like a fine prospect , but not on picturesque principles .  `` I 'd like to know what you 're making such a fuss about , Mr. Crow , but I 've got to feed the cows and milk them first , '' said he .  I heard him say all this as plain as could possibly be .  Sir Frederick and Lady Wentworth !  He was quite as good-looking as he had appeared at Lyme , his countenance improved by speaking , and his manners were so exactly what they ought to be , so polished , so easy , so particularly agreeable , that she could compare them in excellence to only one person 's manners .  `` What 's this ?  It is not fair or just that you should eat me , when I set you free . ''  `` How very odd ! ''  `` Not entirely .  Elinor , though greatly shocked , still felt unable to believe it .  `` I am quite easy on that head , '' replied Mrs. Weston .  and by all accounts , it wo n't come before it 's wanted ; for they say he is all to pieces .  Marianne was of no use on these occasions , as she would never learn the game ; but though her time was therefore at her own disposal , the evening was by no means more productive of pleasure to her than to Elinor , for it was spent in all the anxiety of expectation and the pain of disappointment .  `` Oh !  She must understand you . ''  The gods of the earth and sea Sought through nature to find this tree , But their search was all in vain : There grows one in the human Brain .  Mrs. Bates and Mrs. Elton were together .  `` Now , this must be very bad for you , '' said he , suddenly rousing from a little reverie , `` to be coming and finding us here .  If I was n't afraid that some one would see me , I'd go up there . ''  Till yesterday , I believe , she never doubted his regard ; and even now , perhaps -- but I am almost convinced that he never was really attached to her .  She returned it almost instantly , acknowledging the likeness .  He perfectly knew his own meaning ; and having warmly protested against her suspicion as most injurious , and slightly touched upon his respect for Miss Smith as her friend , -- but acknowledging his wonder that Miss Smith should be mentioned at all , -- he resumed the subject of his own passion , and was very urgent for a favourable answer .  `` Is Miss Woodhouse sure that she would like to hear what we are all thinking of ? ''  She could not speak the name , and look straight forward to Lady Russell 's eye , till she had adopted the expedient of telling her briefly what she thought of the attachment between him and Louisa .  succeeded in the true English style , burying under a calmness that seemed all but indifference , the real attachment which would have led either of them , if requisite , to do every thing for the good of the other .  So peculiarly the lady in it. -- Just colour enough for beauty . ''  `` What should they do without her ?  It grew dusk , and the Little Fir Tree began to hear strange sounds through the closed doors .  It was her own choice to give the time of their absence to Highbury ; to spend , perhaps , her last months of perfect liberty with those kind relations to whom she was so very dear : and the Campbells , whatever might be their motive or motives , whether single , or double , or treble , gave the arrangement their ready sanction , and said , that they depended more on a few months spent in her native air , for the recovery of her health , than on any thing else .  Charles heard it quite by chance ; they have not had the civility to give me any notice , or of offering to take anything .  `` Are you certain that no servant , no porter has left any letter or note ? ''  On HER measures depended those of her two friends ; Mrs. Jennings could not quit Cleveland during the Dashwoods ' stay ; and Colonel Brandon was soon brought , by their united request , to consider his own abode there as equally determinate , if not equally indispensable .  She allowed him to talk , and arranged the glasses , and wrapped herself up , without opening her lips .  Harriet was a little distressed -- did look a little foolish at first : but having once owned that she had been presumptuous and silly , and self-deceived , before , her pain and confusion seemed to die away with the words , and leave her without a care for the past , and with the fullest exultation in the present and future ; for , as to her friend 's approbation , Emma had instantly removed every fear of that nature , by meeting her with the most unqualified congratulations. -- Harriet was most happy to give every particular of the evening at Astley 's , and the dinner the next day ; she could dwell on it all with the utmost delight .  Of course Farmer Brown 's Boy did n't let him .  I did it because I thought it would offend you ; but , as you made no objection , I never did it again . ''  `` Is not she ?  It had been a frosty morning , to be sure , a sharp frost , which hardly one woman in a thousand could stand the test of .  But why should you dislike him ? ''  The young ladies , as well as their mother , were perfectly satisfied with having two entire strangers of the party , and wished for no more .  He vowed that he would have the little Jackal for supper this time , come what might .  `` The notions of a young man of one or two and twenty , '' said he , `` as to what is necessary in manners to make him quite the thing , are more absurd , I believe , than those of any other set of beings in the world .  This is in the supposition of his attachment continuing what it now is ; but I do not know that I expect it will ; I do not look upon him to be quite the sort of man -- I do not altogether build upon his steadiness or constancy. -- His feelings are warm , but I can imagine them rather changeable. -- Every consideration of the subject , in short , makes me thankful that my happiness is not more deeply involved. -- I shall do very well again after a little while -- and then , it will be a good thing over ; for they say every body is in love once in their lives , and I shall have been let off easily . ''  Her sensibilities , I suspect , are strong -- and her temper excellent in its power of forbearance , patience , self-controul ; but it wants openness .  `` I think you spoke of having known Mr Elliot many years ? ''  A doubt of her regard , supposing him to feel it , need not give him more than inquietude .  `` Hop !  I walk : I prefer walking . ''  And they ran , ran , ran very fast , and the Lion did not catch them that time .  I know very well that Colonel Brandon is not old enough to make his friends yet apprehensive of losing him in the course of nature .  They all looked exceedingly foolish ; and Edward seemed to have as great an inclination to walk out of the room again , as to advance farther into it .  I have neglected her too long .  cried Harriet , colouring , and astonished .  I could not have believed it !  Emma could look perfectly unconscious and innocent , and answer in a manner that appropriated nothing .  `` I am glad they are pleased , '' he said , `` but the fact is , I have changed nothing ! ''  A mind like hers , once opening to suspicion , made rapid progress .  Even Sophy could not understand it .  Compliments , charades , and horrible blunders ; and it was not to be supposed that poor Harriet should not be recollecting too ; but she behaved very well , and was only rather pale and silent .  This however was not the case .  I think differently now ; time and sickness and sorrow have given me other notions ; but at that period I must own I saw nothing reprehensible in what Mr Elliot was doing .  Now I do n't say that I do n't believe it , but I do say that I will be a lot more sure that Farmer Brown 's boy is afraid of Buster when I see him run away myself .  `` Just as it should be , '' said Mr. John Knightley , `` and just as I hoped it was from your letters .  He seemed hardly to hear her ; he was thoughtful -- and in a manner which shewed him not pleased , soon afterwards said ,  He could be no judge , however , of the evil he was holding cheap .  Elinor would not humour her by farther opposition .  [ Illustration : Buster Bear was running away , too .  --  `` That 's right , my dear , very right .  I have thought it all over I assure you , and I can perfectly account for every thing that at first seemed strange to me as well as to you . ''  Now , here will be Mr. Elton and Miss Hawkins ; and there are the Coles , such very good people ; and the Perrys -- I suppose there never was a happier or a better couple than Mr. and Mrs. Perry .  `` How much they must enjoy it !  I said to my mother , `Upon my word , ma'am -- . '  Anne did not wish for more of such looks and speeches .  dear Mrs. Elton , so obliged to you for the carriage ! -- excellent time .  I have passed a wretched night in endeavouring to excuse a conduct which can scarcely be called less than insulting ; but though I have not yet been able to form any reasonable apology for your behaviour , I am perfectly ready to hear your justification of it .  `` Such things do occur , undoubtedly . ''  `` She has been indisposed all day , and we have persuaded her to go to bed . ''  `` My feelings , you see , did not prevent my taking Mrs Harville and all her family to Plymouth . ''  `` I am not sorry to see you alone , '' he replied , `` for I have a good deal to say to you .  The Musgroves could hardly be more ready to invite than he to come , particularly in the morning , when he had no companion at home , for the Admiral and Mrs Croft were generally out of doors together , interesting themselves in their new possessions , their grass , and their sheep , and dawdling about in a way not endurable to a third person , or driving out in a gig , lately added to their establishment .  Anne haggard , Mary coarse , every face in the neighbourhood worsting , and the rapid increase of the crow 's foot about Lady Russell 's temples had long been a distress to him .  The young ladies of Highbury might have walked again in safety before their panic began , and the whole history dwindled soon into a matter of little importance but to Emma and her nephews : -- in her imagination it maintained its ground , and Henry and John were still asking every day for the story of Harriet and the gipsies , and still tenaciously setting her right if she varied in the slightest particular from the original recital .  It was a contrast which recommended him most forcibly to her mother .  Tell me not that I am too late , that such precious feelings are gone for ever .  No objection was raised on the father 's side ; the young man was treated liberally ; it was all as it should be : and as Emma became acquainted with Robert Martin , who was now introduced at Hartfield , she fully acknowledged in him all the appearance of sense and worth which could bid fairest for her little friend .  What an air of probability sometimes runs through a dream !  It was quite a different sort of thing , a sentiment distinct and independent .  `` You are speaking of letters of business ; mine are letters of friendship . ''  `` Yes , indeed , a very good letter , '' replied Emma rather slowly -- '' so good a letter , Harriet , that every thing considered , I think one of his sisters must have helped him .  Elinor could only smile .  Elinor , starting back with a look of horror at the sight of him , obeyed the first impulse of her heart in turning instantly to quit the room , and her hand was already on the lock , when its action was suspended by his hastily advancing , and saying , in a voice rather of command than supplication ,  She cried , as happy as any queen , While the starving sparrow she fed and warmed , And danced with rapture , she was so charmed .  After that he yawned until it seemed as if his jaws would crack , and then sat down to think what he wanted for breakfast .  Margaret related something to her the next day , which placed this matter in a still clearer light .  `` But you may come again in the cool of to-morrow morning . ''  How can a child , when fears annoy , But droop his tender wing , And forget his youthful spring ?  Various as were the tempers in her father 's house , he pleased them all .  He came in then and told the giant first to drink a gallon of the broth himself .  This is it .  `` Aye , we men are sad fellows .  He approached , and addressing himself rather to Elinor than Marianne , as if wishing to avoid her eye , and determined not to observe her attitude , inquired in a hurried manner after Mrs. Dashwood , and asked how long they had been in town .  _Her_ change was equal. -- This one half-hour had given to each the same precious certainty of being beloved , had cleared from each the same degree of ignorance , jealousy , or distrust. -- On his side , there had been a long-standing jealousy , old as the arrival , or even the expectation , of Frank Churchill. -- He had been in love with Emma , and jealous of Frank Churchill , from about the same period , one sentiment having probably enlightened him as to the other .  As for herself , she might always command a home with Lady Russell .  Elinor contradicted it , however , very positively ; and by relating that she had herself been employed in conveying the offer from Colonel Brandon to Edward , and , therefore , must understand the terms on which it was given , obliged him to submit to her authority .  EARLY I like to lie and wait to see My mother braid her hair .  The men tried to kill the crickets by beating them down , but the numbers were so great that it was like beating at the sea .  So I sang the same again , While he wept with joy to hear .  In his fluttering rags , without hat or cloak , not knowing what strange thing had happened to him , King Robert rushed to his palace gates , pushed aside the startled servants , and hurried , blind with rage , up the wide stair and through the great corridors , toward the room where he could hear the sound of his courtiers ' voices .  Fanny was startled at the proposal .  Would Jane but go , means were to be found , servants sent , friends contrived -- no travelling difficulty allowed to exist ; but still she had declined it !  It deranged his best plan of domestic happiness , his best hope of keeping Sir Walter single by the watchfulness which a son-in-law 's rights would have given .  A circumstance to interest her .  There , however , he is quite mistaken .  All the minor arrangements of table and chair , lights and music , tea and supper , made themselves ; or were left as mere trifles to be settled at any time between Mrs. Weston and Mrs .  [ Persuasion by Jane Austen 1818 ]  This very awkward history of Mr Elliot was still , after an interval of several years , felt with anger by Elizabeth , who had liked the man for himself , and still more for being her father 's heir , and whose strong family pride could see only in him a proper match for Sir Walter Elliot 's eldest daughter .  But Mr. Woodhouse -- how was Mr. Woodhouse to be induced to consent ? -- he , who had never yet alluded to their marriage but as a distant event .  I never was at his house ; but they say it is a sweet pretty place . ''  `` I am rather of a jealous temper too by nature , and from our different situations in life , from his being so much more in the world than me , and our continual separation , I was enough inclined for suspicion , to have found out the truth in an instant , if there had been the slightest alteration in his behaviour to me when we met , or any lowness of spirits that I could not account for , or if he had talked more of one lady than another , or seemed in any respect less happy at Longstaple than he used to be .  .  The possibility of the young man 's coming to Mrs. Goddard 's that morning , and meeting with Harriet and pleading his own cause , gave alarming ideas .  She smiled , and said how she had changed her name since she was in these parts .  All the night before he had dreamed about the delicious dinner of fried trout he would have the next day , and now -- well , if he did n't catch some trout pretty soon , that splendid dinner would never be anything but a dream .  Her mother too , in whose mind not one speculative thought of their marriage had been raised , by his prospect of riches , was led before the end of a week to hope and expect it ; and secretly to congratulate herself on having gained two such sons-in-law as Edward and Willoughby .  Then cherish pity , lest you drive an angel from your door .  `` How can you think of dirt , with such objects before you ? ''  `` You seem determined to think ill of him . ''  Well , my dear Miss Elliot , I hope and trust you will be very happy .  Am I to believe that you have never sought to recommend yourself particularly to Miss Smith ? -- that you have never thought seriously of her ? ''  -- Highbury , with Mrs. Weston , stood for Hartfield ; and she trusted to its bearing the same construction with him .  I could not give any connected detail yesterday ; but the suddenness , and , in one light , the unseasonableness with which the affair burst out , needs explanation ; for though the event of the 26th ult. , as you will conclude , immediately opened to me the happiest prospects , I should not have presumed on such early measures , but from the very particular circumstances , which left me not an hour to lose .  It was censure in common use , and easily given .  Lady Russell had only to listen composedly , and wish them happy , but internally her heart revelled in angry pleasure , in pleased contempt , that the man who at twenty-three had seemed to understand somewhat of the value of an Anne Elliot , should , eight years afterwards , be charmed by a Louisa Musgrove .  He had , very soon after their engagement ceased , got employ : and all that he had told her would follow , had taken place .  `` Oh !  To take a dislike to a young man , only because he appeared to be of a different disposition from himself , was unworthy the real liberality of mind which she was always used to acknowledge in him ; for with all the high opinion of himself , which she had often laid to his charge , she had never before for a moment supposed it could make him unjust to the merit of another .  They must retrench ; that did not admit of a doubt .  `` May I , indeed ? -- Then I will speak the truth , and nothing suits me so well .  Little Joe Otter looked around at all the eager faces watching him , and then in the slowest , most provoking way , he drawled : `` Farmer Brown 's boy is afraid of Buster Bear . ''  Elizabeth did not quite equal her father in personal contentment .  She was without any power , because she was without any desire of command over herself .  The Little Fir Tree had a sudden sight of a long room with many little white beds in it , of children propped up on pillows in the beds , and of other children in great wheeled chairs , and others hobbling about or sitting in little chairs .  The Musgroves are behaving like themselves , most honourably and kindly , only anxious with true parental hearts to promote their daughter 's comfort .  And , indeed , to own the truth , I do not think nurse , in her heart , is a very strenuous opposer of Sir Walter 's making a second match .  `` Look at the Ducks carrying a Tortoise ! ''  By the time he got home there was n't anything left but a fistful of crumbs .  She said nothing , therefore , till he was out of the room , but as soon as there was only Anne to hear --  There ought to be a lot of 'em up there .  She could not stand it .  The name makes me think of poor Isabella ; for she was very near being christened Catherine after her grandmama .  `` I will honestly tell you of one scheme which has lately come into my head , for bringing matters to bear ; indeed I am bound to let you into the secret , for you are a party concerned .  So he went down by the river and looked all around , very carefully .  To fade away like morning beauty from her mortal day : Down by the river of Adona her soft voice is heard ; And thus her gentle lamentation falls like morning dew .  `` But gaiety never was a part of MY character . ''  Emma returned her friend 's pressure with interest ; and was pleased enough to exclaim ,  Mr. Weston -- ( laughing affectedly ) I must protest against that. -- A most dangerous precedent indeed ! -- I beg you will not let your neighbours follow your example. -- Upon my word , if this is what I am to expect , we married women must begin to exert ourselves ! -- Oh !  She was so eager to have them drawn that I could not refuse ; but there is no making children of three or four years old stand still you know ; nor can it be very easy to take any likeness of them , beyond the air and complexion , unless they are coarser featured than any of mama 's children ever were .  Please to destroy my scrawls -- but the ring with my hair you are very welcome to keep . ''  The man must be a blockhead who wanted more .  `` Would you make me a hole , '' said the old white garraun , `` where I could go in to hide whenever the people come to fetch me to the mill or the kiln , so that they wo n't see me ; for they tire me out doing work for them ? ''  And Buster Bear was just exactly right .  It was a remainder of former sentiment ; it was an impulse of pure , though unacknowledged friendship ; it was a proof of his own warm and amiable heart , which she could not contemplate without emotions so compounded of pleasure and pain , that she knew not which prevailed .  I assure you I began to think my caro sposo would be absolutely jealous .  `` By all means , if you can . ''  I have quite a horror of upstarts .  She determined to call upon them and seek safety in numbers .  The poor thing prayed to us so piteously to let her go !  _She_ would notice her ; she would improve her ; she would detach her from her bad acquaintance , and introduce her into good society ; she would form her opinions and her manners .  `` I thank you , ma'am , sincerely thank you , '' said Marianne , with warmth : `` your invitation has insured my gratitude for ever , and it would give me such happiness , yes , almost the greatest happiness I am capable of , to be able to accept it .  The neighbourhood of Brunswick Square is very different from almost all the rest .  `` I have not seen Mr Elliot these three years , '' was Mrs Smith 's answer , given so gravely that it was impossible to pursue the subject farther ; and Anne felt that she had gained nothing but an increase of curiosity .  She wondered , indeed , at his thinking it necessary to do so ; but supposed it to be the proper etiquette .  I wish as well as every body else to be perfectly happy ; but , like every body else it must be in my own way .  You see how I done set 'em on the doorstep to cool ?  And when , after two years , the man who had been a clown died , the hermit felt that he had lost a brother more holy than himself .  They seem not able to do any thing without him. -- `Upon my word , Mr. E. , ' I often say , `rather you than I. -- I do not know what would become of my crayons and my instrument , if I had half so many applicants . '  And when the courtiers came in to see if he were dead , there stood the Emperor with his sword in one hand and his sceptre in the other , and said , `` Good-morning ! ''  How can you be so cross as not to come ?  There was , at times , a want of spirits about him which , if it did not denote indifference , spoke of something almost as unpromising .  The little Jackal did not wait for a second look .  Oh ! -- you need not be afraid of owning it to me , for Mr. Weston has told me himself .  This will certainly be the beginning of one of our quarrels about Emma , Mr .  I am not at all equal to it .  She knocked ; they opened ; and she slipped inside .  `` Jump on my tail , and I will take you across , '' said the fox .  `` Flowers , '' said Margery , with shining eyes , -- '' blue , and white , and yellow , and pink , -- every kind of flower ! ''  `` Well , I am so sorry ! -- Oh !  `` Ah !  `` To be sure I will , if you wish it .  It was all read , however , steadily , attentively , and without the smallest remark ; and , excepting one momentary glance at her , instantly withdrawn , in the fear of giving pain -- no remembrance of Box Hill seemed to exist .  Now you know that Buster is a very big fellow , and it takes a lot to fill him up .  `` Oh !  `` Oh , la !  He shook his head ; but there was a smile of indulgence with it , and he only said ,  `` DEAR SIR ,  But all these things took up a great deal of time . ''  This is the end of the adventures of Buster Bear in this book because -- guess why .  One perplexity , however , arose , which the gentlemen did not disdain .  They arrived in due time at the place of destination , and as soon as the string of carriages before them would allow , alighted , ascended the stairs , heard their names announced from one landing-place to another in an audible voice , and entered a room splendidly lit up , quite full of company , and insufferably hot .  `` Certainly -- very strong it was ; to own the truth , a great deal stronger than , if _I_ had been Miss Campbell , would have been at all agreeable to me .  It was a great object to her to escape all enquiry or eclat ; but it was her intention to be as decidedly cool to him as might be compatible with their relationship ; and to retrace , as quietly as she could , the few steps of unnecessary intimacy she had been gradually led along .  laughed the hermit .  `` I am ready , '' said Emma , `` whenever I am wanted . ''  Skilful has been the hand ! ''  Mrs. Weston sees no objection to it , provided you are satisfied .  And at last , as he listened , his heart was softened .  She must laugh at such a close !  I am almost dead for want of air .  Emma had feelings , less of curiosity than of pride or propriety , to make her resolve on not being the last to pay her respects ; and she made a point of Harriet 's going with her , that the worst of the business might be gone through as soon as possible .  But I do n't think mine would be , to make one son independent , because another had plagued me . ''  For a moment the gratification was exquisite .  You think so , do not you ? ''  But I have not known him long ; and he is not a man , I think , to be known intimately soon .  The sitting was altogether very satisfactory ; she was quite enough pleased with the first day 's sketch to wish to go on .  The little Gingerbread Boy jumped on his shoulder .  Mr and Mrs Musgrove , either from seeing little , or from an entire confidence in the discretion of both their daughters , and of all the young men who came near them , seemed to leave everything to take its chance .  `` I understand you. -- You do not suppose that I have ever felt much. -- For four months , Marianne , I have had all this hanging on my mind , without being at liberty to speak of it to a single creature ; knowing that it would make you and my mother most unhappy whenever it were explained to you , yet unable to prepare you for it in the least. -- It was told me , -- it was in a manner forced on me by the very person herself , whose prior engagement ruined all my prospects ; and told me , as I thought , with triumph. -- This person 's suspicions , therefore , I have had to oppose , by endeavouring to appear indifferent where I have been most deeply interested ; -- and it has not been only once ; -- I have had her hopes and exultation to listen to again and again. -- I have known myself to be divided from Edward for ever , without hearing one circumstance that could make me less desire the connection. -- Nothing has proved him unworthy ; nor has anything declared him indifferent to me. -- I have had to contend against the unkindness of his sister , and the insolence of his mother ; and have suffered the punishment of an attachment , without enjoying its advantages. -- And all this has been going on at a time , when , as you know too well , it has not been my only unhappiness. -- If you can think me capable of ever feeling -- surely you may suppose that I have suffered NOW .  The Middletons were to follow in about a week .  Ferrars ? ''  `` Oh , if that 's all , '' cried Miss Steele , `` we can just as well go and see HER . ''  Two thousand a year without debt or drawback -- except the little love-child , indeed ; aye , I had forgot her ; but she may be 'prenticed out at a small cost , and then what does it signify ?  It was not closed , however , it still remained ajar ; but by engaging the housekeeper in incessant conversation , she hoped to make it practicable for him to chuse his own subject in the adjoining room .  Such varieties of human nature as they are in the habit of witnessing !  With such a reward for her tears , the child was too wise to cease crying .  `` So altered that he should not have known her again ! ''  I am come on to give you notice , that papa and mamma are out of spirits this evening , especially mamma ; she is thinking so much of poor Richard !  Richard ? -- I saw you the other day as you rode through the town -- Mrs. Otway , I protest ! -- and good Mr. Otway , and Miss Otway and Miss Caroline. -- Such a host of friends ! -- and Mr. George and Mr .  Pray take care , Miss Woodhouse , ours is rather a dark staircase -- rather darker and narrower than one could wish .  There is jealousy .  I behaved shamefully .  `` I stood just here by the roadside , '' said the Brahmin .  Short had been the notice -- short their meeting ; he was gone ; and Emma felt so sorry to part , and foresaw so great a loss to their little society from his absence as to begin to be afraid of being too sorry , and feeling it too much .  I went for only one night , and could not get away till that very day se'nnight . ''  He is undoubtedly a sensible man , and in his manners perfectly the gentleman . ''  I am persuaded that Mrs. Smith suspects his regard for Marianne , disapproves of it , ( perhaps because she has other views for him , ) and on that account is eager to get him away ; -- and that the business which she sends him off to transact is invented as an excuse to dismiss him .  When he came back , alas !  Marianne had at first the advantage , but a false step brought her suddenly to the ground ; and Margaret , unable to stop herself to assist her , was involuntarily hurried along , and reached the bottom in safety .  `` Yes ; he has very good property in Dorsetshire . ''  It would be going only to multiply trouble to the others , and increase his own distress ; and a much better scheme followed and was acted upon .  Emma was very decided in thinking such an attachment no bad thing for her friend .  But there is nobody hereabouts to attach her ; and she goes so seldom from home . ''  If you really want my opinion you must make the matter clear .  But soon it came to be on one side ,  VOLUME I  Now , my dear madam , I will release you ; but I could not conclude before .  certainly not too tall ; not in the least too tall .  Their favour increased ; they could not be spared ; Sir John would not hear of their going ; and in spite of their numerous and long arranged engagements in Exeter , in spite of the absolute necessity of returning to fulfill them immediately , which was in full force at the end of every week , they were prevailed on to stay nearly two months at the park , and to assist in the due celebration of that festival which requires a more than ordinary share of private balls and large dinners to proclaim its importance .  The Colonel , though disclaiming all pretensions to connoisseurship , warmly admired the screens , as he would have done any thing painted by Miss Dashwood ; and on the curiosity of the others being of course excited , they were handed round for general inspection .  `` You must begin your improvements on this house , '' observed Elinor , `` and your difficulties will soon vanish . ''  They did not know .  `` Fifteen years !  `` I suppose you will go and stay with your brother and sister , Miss Dashwood , when they come to town , '' said Lucy , returning , after a cessation of hostile hints , to the charge .  He was very terrible to see .  Emma was very willing now to acquit her of having seduced Mr. Dixon 's actions from his wife , or of any thing mischievous which her imagination had suggested at first .  And there is one thing more preparing against him , which must be worse than all -- his mother has determined , with a very natural kind of spirit , to settle THAT estate upon Robert immediately , which might have been Edward 's , on proper conditions .  However , I dare say we should have seen a great deal of him in Somersetshire , if it had not happened very unluckily that we should never have been in the country together .  Design could never bring them in each other 's way : negligence could never leave them exposed to a surprise ; and chance had less in its favour in the crowd of London than even in the retirement of Barton , where it might force him before her while paying that visit at Allenham on his marriage , which Mrs. Dashwood , from foreseeing at first as a probable event , had brought herself to expect as a certain one .  The way to carry cake is to wrap it all up nice in some leaves and put it in your hat , and put your hat on your head , and come along home .  She is only nursing Mrs Wallis of Marlborough Buildings ; a mere pretty , silly , expensive , fashionable woman , I believe ; and of course will have nothing to report but of lace and finery .  But you may be assured that I would not sacrifice one sentiment of local attachment of yours , or of any one whom I loved , for all the improvements in the world .  It 's a habit .  And so I shall always say , my dear , you may depend on it .  `` No , dear Emperor , '' said the little Nightingale , `` I sing best when I am free ; I can not live in a palace .  But if she continued to play whenever she was asked by Mr. Dixon , one may guess what one chuses . ''  She had given them neither men , nor names , nor places , that could raise a blush .  Now if I were back up there in the Great Woods I could have all I could eat .  `` Oh !  Just as the little Half-Chick thought he must suffocate , the Cook took the cover off , to look at the dinner .  Miss Bates , in her real anxiety for Jane , could hardly stay even to be grateful , before she stept forward and put an end to all farther singing .  They were soon joined by some of the gentlemen ; and the very first of the early was Frank Churchill .  When Emma afterwards heard that Jane Fairfax had been seen wandering about the meadows , at some distance from Highbury , on the afternoon of the very day on which she had , under the plea of being unequal to any exercise , so peremptorily refused to go out with her in the carriage , she could have no doubt -- putting every thing together -- that Jane was resolved to receive no kindness from _her_ .  All its windows were ablaze with lights .  But they were all so happy that it did not matter .  They encouraged each other now in the violence of their affliction .  I am sure you will like it of all things .  It made him sad , and that made Elsa sad , for she wanted to do everything just right .  Mrs. Jennings , knowing nothing of any change in the patient , went unusually early to bed ; her maid , who was one of the principal nurses , was recreating herself in the housekeeper 's room , and Elinor remained alone with Marianne .  `` It would be a crowd -- a sad crowd ; and what could be worse than dancing without space to turn in ? ''  I avoided the Middletons as much as possible , as well as everybody else who was likely to prove an acquaintance in common .  But most of all he listened to a merry , low , silvery laugh that never stopped but went on and on , until he just felt as if he must laugh too .  `` About two hundred a year . ''  _Courtship_ -- a very good hint .  `` I think , Elinor , '' she presently added , `` we must employ Edward to take care of us in our return to Barton .  he must and shall come back , '' cried Sir John .  The young man 's conduct , and his sister 's , seemed the result of real feeling , and she could not but pity them .  After a while , however , he pushed his way out of the woods into the open , and there stood the castle , only a little way ahead !  It might have been an opportunity of watching the loves and jealousies of the four -- they were now altogether ; but she could stay for none of it .  Colonel Brandon must be the man ; and no civility shall be wanting on my part to make him pleased with you and your family .  Because you are so sly about it yourself , you think nobody else has any senses ; but it is no such thing , I can tell you , for it has been known all over town this ever so long .  She was sitting by Edward , and in taking his tea from Mrs. Dashwood , his hand passed so directly before her , as to make a ring , with a plait of hair in the centre , very conspicuous on one of his fingers .  In the whole of her subsequent manner , she traced the direction of a mind awakened to reasonable exertion ; for no sooner had they entered their common sitting-room , than Marianne turned her eyes around it with a look of resolute firmness , as if determined at once to accustom herself to the sight of every object with which the remembrance of Willoughby could be connected. -- She said little , but every sentence aimed at cheerfulness , and though a sigh sometimes escaped her , it never passed away without the atonement of a smile .  `` No , indeed I do not . ''  Emma wished she had been alone with Mrs. Weston .  `` It would be impossible to go to-morrow .  `` Have I ? ''  I wonder if anything is wrong with my little House ? ''  In such a situation as that , where there seemed nothing to tempt the avarice or the vanity of any living creature , how could I suppose , when she so earnestly , so warmly insisted on sharing my fate , whatever it might be , that any thing but the most disinterested affection was her inducement ?  Yes , Sir , something happened .  `` You will get nothing to the purpose from Miss Bates , '' said Emma .  She had long resolved that one-and-twenty should be the period .  `` I thought it my duty , '' said he , `` independent of my feelings , to give her the option of continuing the engagement or not , when I was renounced by my mother , and stood to all appearance without a friend in the world to assist me .  Some of the objects of his curiosity spoke very amiable feelings .  Farewell , green fields and happy grove , Where flocks have ta'en delight .  I acquit Edward of essential misconduct .  I never saw any thing so outree ! -- Those curls ! -- This must be a fancy of her own .  There was no delay , no waste of time .  How was Anne to set all these matters to rights ?  The letters from town , which a few days before would have made every nerve in Elinor 's body thrill with transport , now arrived to be read with less emotion that mirth .  She hoped it was not so .  `` That I can easily believe . ''  The man tried to slide off , then , but from all sides of his strange animal great arms came reaching up and held him fast .  She merely said , in the course of some trivial chat , `` Well , Harriet , whenever you marry I would advise you to do so and so '' -- and thought no more of it , till after a minute 's silence she heard Harriet say in a very serious tone , `` I shall never marry . ''  But when David girded his sword upon his armour , and tried to walk , he said to Saul , `` I can not go with these , for I am not used to them . ''  She lived with them until she grew up .  The delightful family party which Emma was securing for herself , poor Harriet must , in mere charitable caution , be kept at a distance from .  CHAPTER 16  This was felt to be a considerable amendment ; and though they all met at the Great House at rather an early breakfast hour , and set off very punctually , it was so much past noon before the two carriages , Mr Musgrove 's coach containing the four ladies , and Charles 's curricle , in which he drove Captain Wentworth , were descending the long hill into Lyme , and entering upon the still steeper street of the town itself , that it was very evident they would not have more than time for looking about them , before the light and warmth of the day were gone .  She could not contemplate the change as implying less .  Consider , '' she added , `` that when the money is once parted with , it never can return .  Not a creature knowing it but themselves -- neither the Campbells , nor her family , nor his. -- It is so wonderful , that though perfectly convinced of the fact , it is yet almost incredible to myself .  Her faith was plighted , and Mr Elliot 's character , like the Sultaness Scheherazade 's head , must live another day .  I would not say so to every body , Mrs. Elton , but I have not much faith in Mrs. Churchill 's illness . ''  Once she did contrive to push him away , but the boy had the greater pleasure in getting upon her back again directly .  Imagine to yourself , my dear Elinor , the delight of a gallop on some of these downs . ''  `` Very true , very true .  The minute the fox reached the bank he threw back his head , and gave a snap !  It was quite a sudden thing our coming at all , and I knew nothing of it till the carriage was coming to the door , and then Mr. Palmer asked me if I would go with him to Barton .  From perfect misery to perfect happiness ! ''  A few minutes more of silent exertion enabled him to proceed with composure .  `` A strong mind , with sweetness of manner , '' made the first and the last of the description .  He is worse than last year .  But I shall always think it a very abominable sort of proceeding .  Her own father 's perfect exemption from any thought of the kind , the entire deficiency in him of all such sort of penetration or suspicion , was a most comfortable circumstance .  That was another surprise .  He joined them immediately , and , with scarcely an invitation , seated himself between them .  Down , down , down , rolled the acorn , and down , down , down , went the Field Mouse , until suddenly he saw a tiny door at the foot of the stairs .  It is Frank Churchill 's duty to pay this attention to his father .  He turned to a learned clerk at his side and asked what those words meant , for he knew no Latin .  Do you think it right or fair that this Tiger should eat me , when I set him free from a terrible cage ? ''  then recollecting herself , and not wishing to be answered , she added , `` I certainly do think there has been by far too much trouble taken to procure the acquaintance .  Excellent dancing indeed ! -- Yes , my dear , I ran home , as I said I should , to help grandmama to bed , and got back again , and nobody missed me. -- I set off without saying a word , just as I told you .  They came up to the Little Fir Tree and quickly lighted all the little pink and white candles .  `` Ah !  No one ever worked so fast as they .  No additional agitation should be thrown at this period among those she loved -- and the evil should not act on herself by anticipation before the appointed time. -- A fortnight , at least , of leisure and peace of mind , to crown every warmer , but more agitating , delight , should be hers .  He was immediately interested .  A three weeks ' residence at Delaford , where , in his evening hours at least , he had little to do but to calculate the disproportion between thirty-six and seventeen , brought him to Barton in a temper of mind which needed all the improvement in Marianne 's looks , all the kindness of her welcome , and all the encouragement of her mother 's language , to make it cheerful .  `` But , my dear child , the time is drawing near ; here is April , and June , or say even July , is very near , with such business to accomplish before us .  But though SHE never spoke of it out of her own family , Elinor could see its influence on her mind , in the something like confusion of countenance with which she entered , and an attempt at cordiality in her behaviour to herself .  A Brahmin is a very good and gentle kind of man who lives in India , and who treats all the beasts as if they were his brothers .  But I will shew her greater attention than I have done . ''  She was very pretty , and ever so strong ; she could run for miles through the woods and not get tired .  I must say it is very unfeeling of him to be running away from his poor little boy .  Half and hour 's solitude and reflection might have tranquillized her ; but the ten minutes only which now passed before she was interrupted , with all the restraints of her situation , could do nothing towards tranquillity .  The Field Mouse hurried as fast as he could down the last stairs , and pushed through just as the door was closing .  I wish you could have heard how she talked of it -- with what candour and generosity .  I must die of thirst ! ''  Few people who have so compassionate a heart !  As a walking companion , Emma had very early foreseen how useful she might find her .  said Sir Walter , in the height of his good humour .  I beg your pardon , Mr. Dashwood , but if he had done otherwise , I should have thought him a rascal .  `` I say nothing of which I am ashamed , '' replied he , with lively impudence .  He looked pleased by this remembrance , and added ,  And then , at last , the Little Fir Tree knew what he was ; he was a Christmas tree !  It was being very deficient . ''  `` It is but a cottage , '' she continued , `` but I hope to see many of my friends in it .  SPRING Sound the flute !  She had never considered herself as entitled to reward for not slighting an old friend like Mrs Smith , but here was a reward indeed springing from it !  Hour after hour passed away in sleepless pain and delirium on Marianne 's side , and in the most cruel anxiety on Elinor 's , before Mr. Harris appeared .  Marianne 's ideas were still , at intervals , fixed incoherently on her mother , and whenever she mentioned her name , it gave a pang to the heart of poor Elinor , who , reproaching herself for having trifled with so many days of illness , and wretched for some immediate relief , fancied that all relief might soon be in vain , that every thing had been delayed too long , and pictured to herself her suffering mother arriving too late to see this darling child , or to see her rational .  `` M.D . ''  Emma had done .  they were all hidden away in her little pink fingers , a fairy in every finger !  With such encouragement as this , was she dismissed on the present occasion , to her brother 's carriage ; which they were ready to enter five minutes after it stopped at the door , a punctuality not very agreeable to their sister-in-law , who had preceded them to the house of her acquaintance , and was there hoping for some delay on their part that might inconvenience either herself or her coachman .  The thing would be for us all to come on donkeys , Jane , Miss Bates , and me -- and my caro sposo walking by .  I will ask them all for an evening ; that will be much better ; that will be a novelty and a treat .  `` She sees nothing to blame in it , '' replied Anne ; `` on the contrary , she approves it , and has generally taken me when I have called on Mrs Smith .  It was most convenient to Emma not to make a direct reply to this assertion ; she chose rather to take up her own line of the subject again .  Lady Dalrymple 's carriage , for which Miss Elliot was growing very impatient , now drew up ; the servant came in to announce it .  My best love , of course . ''  Elinor , according to her expectation , saw on the two or three following days , that Marianne did not continue to gain strength as she had done ; but while her resolution was unsubdued , and she still tried to appear cheerful and easy , her sister could safely trust to the effect of time upon her health .  `` Who is there ? ''  Mary spoke with animation of their meeting with , or rather missing , Mr Elliot so extraordinarily .  True affection only could have prompted it . ''  Going in dismal weather , to return probably in worse ; -- four horses and four servants taken out for nothing but to convey five idle , shivering creatures into colder rooms and worse company than they might have had at home . ''  He may , at times , be able to do a great deal more than he can at others . ''  `` She is a sort of elegant creature that one can not keep one 's eyes from .  He told Patty this , but bid her not mind it , and be sure not to say any thing to us about it , for Mrs. Hodges _would_ be cross sometimes , and as long as so many sacks were sold , it did not signify who ate the remainder .  Sometimes she could believe Willoughby to be as unfortunate and as innocent as herself , and at others , lost every consolation in the impossibility of acquitting him .  Her sister , however , still sanguine , was willing to attribute the change to nothing more than the fatigue of having sat up to have her bed made ; and carefully administering the cordials prescribed , saw her , with satisfaction , sink at last into a slumber , from which she expected the most beneficial effects .  `` Not at all .  But now it is all too late .  He carried a big tin pail , and in the bottom of it , wrapped up in a piece of paper , was a lunch , for he meant to stay until he filled that pail , if it took all day .  He joined her and Marianne in the breakfast-room the next morning before the others were down ; and Marianne , who was always eager to promote their happiness as far as she could , soon left them to themselves .  Do not you hear your aunt speak ?  He had wanted very much to go abroad -- had been very eager indeed to be allowed to travel -- but she would not hear of it .  I must go and comfort mama .  It seemed at first an accidental division , but it never materially varied .  And then whispering -- `` Our companions are excessively stupid .  I told him the distance and the road , and I told him of the church 's being so very well worth seeing ; for as he has a taste for those sort of things , I thought that would be a good excuse , and he listened with all his understanding and soul ; and I am sure from his manner that you will have him calling here soon .  Sir Walter , his two daughters , and Mrs Clay , were the earliest of all their party at the rooms in the evening ; and as Lady Dalrymple must be waited for , they took their station by one of the fires in the Octagon Room .  Natural enough ! -- his own mind full of intrigue , that he should suspect it in others. -- Mystery ; Finesse -- how they pervert the understanding !  Consequently , the little Jackal had eaten his fill by the time the Camel had barely taken a mouthful .  You , who have not a mother 's feelings , are a great deal the properest person .  `` Strange that it would ! ''  I am no dancer . ''  I could not bear to leave the country in a manner that might lead you , or the rest of the neighbourhood , to suspect any part of what had really passed between Mrs. Smith and myself -- and I resolved therefore on calling at the cottage , in my way to Honiton .  You never wrote a truer line . ''  The kind-hearted , polite old man might then sit down and feel that he had done his duty , and made every fair lady welcome and easy .  Suppose you had a secret , a real secret , something that nobody else knew and that you did n't want anybody else to know .  Whenever she is with us , Mrs. Cole does not know how to shew her kindness enough ; and I must say that Jane deserves it as much as any body can .  I think their father is too rough with them very often . ''  I wish his friends would propose it to him .  In almost no time all the shoes were stitched and finished .  I have often talked to her a good deal .  `` Oh !  Must it not have been so , Marianne ? ''  he mumbled in his deep grumbly-rumbly voice , as he sat on his haunches stripping off the berries greedily .  Her pleasure in the walk must arise from the exercise and the day , from the view of the last smiles of the year upon the tawny leaves , and withered hedges , and from repeating to herself some few of the thousand poetical descriptions extant of autumn , that season of peculiar and inexhaustible influence on the mind of taste and tenderness , that season which had drawn from every poet , worthy of being read , some attempt at description , or some lines of feeling .  She acknowledged , therefore , that though she had never been informed by themselves of the terms on which they stood with each other , of their mutual affection she had no doubt , and of their correspondence she was not astonished to hear .  `` You think I ought to refuse him then , '' said Harriet , looking down .  said Anne , suddenly struck by an idea which made her yet more anxious to be encouraging .  `` I was sitting on the bank of the Laughing Brook beside one of the little pools , '' he told Billy Mink , `` and was just going to eat a fat trout I had caught , when who should come along but that great big bully , Buster Bear .  His wondering eyes soon perceived other unusual objects , for the hearth was piled with wood , and the table was loaded with food and dainties such as he had never even imagined .  It opens his designs to his family , it introduces you among them , it diffuses through the party those pleasantest feelings of our nature , eager curiosity and warm prepossession .  Mr. Weston , on his side , added a virtue to the account which must have some weight .  asked Marianne .  `` Great has been the pleasure , I am sure .  The next day and the next they grew , until the beet leaves were big enough to see .  She had learnt , in the last ten minutes , more of his feelings towards Louisa , more of all his feelings than she dared to think of ; and she gave herself up to the demands of the party , to the needful civilities of the moment , with exquisite , though agitated sensations .  We invalids think we are privileged people . ''  Thy wine doth purify the golden honey ; thy perfume .  cried Marianne , with strong surprise .  She was clad in robes of dazzling white , and on her shining hair she wore a wreath of white roses .  Each day , after that , the row of radishes grew , till , in a week , it stood as high as your finger , green and sturdy .  Yes .  `` Have ye the pot a-bilin ' ? ''  `` Epaminondas , you ai n't got the sense you was born with !  And the distinction is not quite so much against the candour and common sense of the world as appears at first ; for a very narrow income has a tendency to contract the mind , and sour the temper .  Captain Harville , though not equalling Captain Wentworth in manners , was a perfect gentleman , unaffected , warm , and obliging .  This to _me_ !  I do not think they were . ''  Mr. Ferrars is to be the man .  When my mother removes into another house my services shall be readily given to accommodate her as far as I can .  She must wait a moment , or he would think her mad .  .  While her father spoke , there was a knock at the door .  `` Perfectly , perfectly right , my dearest Harriet ; you are doing just what you ought .  Mr. Woodhouse had so completely made up his mind to the visit , that in spite of the increasing coldness , he seemed to have no idea of shrinking from it , and set forward at last most punctually with his eldest daughter in his own carriage , with less apparent consciousness of the weather than either of the others ; too full of the wonder of his own going , and the pleasure it was to afford at Randalls to see that it was cold , and too well wrapt up to feel it .  He had been engaged to Captain Harville 's sister , and was now mourning her loss .  Buster Bear 's own mouth watered as he saw it .  Perhaps he would n't have been afraid this time if it had n't been for the surprise of what he found .  The worst of it was Buster knew that everybody knew that it was true .  The artist listened , quietly .  She sat in silence almost all the way , wrapt in her own meditations , and scarcely ever voluntarily speaking , except when any object of picturesque beauty within their view drew from her an exclamation of delight exclusively addressed to her sister .  `` Nor do I think it a part of Marianne 's , '' said Elinor ; `` I should hardly call her a lively girl -- she is very earnest , very eager in all she does -- sometimes talks a great deal and always with animation -- but she is not often really merry . ''  A very successful visit : -- I saw all the three ladies ; and felt very much obliged to you for your preparatory hint .  I do not want to say more than is necessary -- I am too much ashamed of having given way as I have done , and I dare say you understand me . ''  They went to their dinner then , and when they had eaten it , the giant asked the tailor `` would he dare to swallow as much boiling broth as himself . ''  `` Yes , holy father , '' he said , `` I have been something else .  There had been music , singing , talking , laughing , all that was most agreeable ; charming manners in Captain Wentworth , no shyness or reserve ; they seemed all to know each other perfectly , and he was coming the very next morning to shoot with Charles .  But there were twelve servants appointed to wait on her , and those twelve servants went with her every time she went out , and each of the twelve had hold of the end of a silken string which was tied to the little Nightingale 's leg !  `` But she is so fond of the nephew : he is so very great a favourite .  We have apple-dumplings , however , very often .  Captain Wentworth must be out of sight .  The gulls flew overhead , with a shrill chorus of whimpering cries , and then , in a marvellous white cloud of outspread wings and hovering breasts , they settled down over the cultivated ground .  Well , ( smiling , ) I hope it may be allowed that if compassion has produced exertion and relief to the sufferers , it has done all that is truly important .  He is always with them ; half lives in the family , I believe .  She felt your full meaning .  Her joy and expression of regard long outlived her wonder .  I hope we 'll go fishing together often . ''  I wanted them to put off the wedding . ''  What a thinking brain you have !  A likeness pleases every body ; and Miss Woodhouse 's performances must be capital .  `` My dear Mrs Smith , your authority is deficient .  Anne thought she left great happiness behind her when they quitted the house ; and Louisa , by whom she found herself walking , burst forth into raptures of admiration and delight on the character of the navy ; their friendliness , their brotherliness , their openness , their uprightness ; protesting that she was convinced of sailors having more worth and warmth than any other set of men in England ; that they only knew how to live , and they only deserved to be respected and loved .  Isabella stept in after her father ; John Knightley , forgetting that he did not belong to their party , stept in after his wife very naturally ; so that Emma found , on being escorted and followed into the second carriage by Mr. Elton , that the door was to be lawfully shut on them , and that they were to have a tete-a-tete drive .  And , without love , I am sure I should be a fool to change such a situation as mine .  `` Stop !  They had music ; Emma was obliged to play ; and the thanks and praise which necessarily followed appeared to her an affectation of candour , an air of greatness , meaning only to shew off in higher style her own very superior performance .  `` Oh !  replied her cousin , with affected earnestness , `` and I beg you will contradict it , if you ever hear it talked of . ''  And last night he was with us so happy , so cheerful , so affectionate ?  In general their evenings were less engaged with friends than their mornings ; but one complete dinner engagement , and out of the house too , there was no avoiding , though at Christmas .  `` Phoo !  Miss Hawkins was the youngest of the two daughters of a Bristol -- merchant , of course , he must be called ; but , as the whole of the profits of his mercantile life appeared so very moderate , it was not unfair to guess the dignity of his line of trade had been very moderate also .  And Jane Fairfax , too , of all women ! ''  `` But you do not consider how it may appear to the Coles .  They dug until they had turned up the soil from one end of the orchard to the other , round the tree-roots and between them .  But , now that she has written her letters , she says she shall soon be well .  I will not torment myself any longer by remaining among friends whose society it is impossible for me now to enjoy . ''  I remember saying to myself , `Even Emma , with all her partiality for Harriet , will think this a good match . ' ''  I am thwarted in every thing material .  You 're pretty smart , but there are other people who are smart too , '' said Buster Bear , and still chuckling , he went off to think up a plan to get the best of Little Joe Otter .  Mr. Knightley to be no longer coming there for his evening comfort ! -- No longer walking in at all hours , as if ever willing to change his own home for their 's ! -- How was it to be endured ?  Things happened just as he had expected .  Marianne , though without knowing it herself , reaped all its advantage ; for neither Mrs. Jennings , nor Sir John , nor even Mrs. Palmer herself , ever spoke of him before her .  Poor girl !  Elinor , without observing the varying complexion of her sister , and the animated look which spoke no indifference to the plan , immediately gave a grateful but absolute denial for both , in which she believed herself to be speaking their united inclinations .  Marianne gave a violent start , fixed her eyes upon Elinor , saw her turning pale , and fell back in her chair in hysterics .  At nineteen , you know , one does not think very seriously ; but Mr Elliot appeared to me quite as good as others , and much more agreeable than most others , and we were almost always together .  Mr. Frank Churchill still declined it , looking as serious as he could , and his father gave his hearty support by calling out , `` My good friend , this is quite unnecessary ; Frank knows a puddle of water when he sees it , and as to Mrs. Bates 's , he may get there from the Crown in a hop , step , and jump . ''  `` He lives down there ! ''  She was persuaded to believe the engagement a wrong thing : indiscreet , improper , hardly capable of success , and not deserving it .  She consulted , and in a degree was influenced by her in marking out the scheme of retrenchment which was at last submitted to Sir Walter .  But when the second moment had passed , when she found every doubt , every solicitude removed , compared her situation with what so lately it had been , -- saw him honourably released from his former engagement , saw him instantly profiting by the release , to address herself and declare an affection as tender , as constant as she had ever supposed it to be , -- she was oppressed , she was overcome by her own felicity ; -- and happily disposed as is the human mind to be easily familiarized with any change for the better , it required several hours to give sedateness to her spirits , or any degree of tranquillity to her heart .  Emma thought at least it would turn out so .  Mrs. Jennings had determined very early in the seizure that Marianne would never get over it , and Colonel Brandon , who was chiefly of use in listening to Mrs. Jennings 's forebodings , was not in a state of mind to resist their influence .  When he had sacked the city , the sea-king took on board his ship the two Giant-Maidens , and with them the broken millstones .  He found he could not be useful , and his feelings were too much irritated for talking .  `` To be sure it will .  There she is -- no , that 's somebody else .  The greedy man could not bear to see even an instant 's pause , and he came out of the shadow , and bade them , with harsh words , go on grinding , and cease not except for so long as the cuckoo was silent , or while he himself sang a song .  Oh He gives to us his joy , That our grief He may destroy : Till our grief is fled an gone He doth sit by us and moan .  And just think , dears , that splendid , wise will was signed with a cross instead of a name , for Margaret had never learned to read or write !  I am more curious to know why he should be so different now . ''  She was in no hurry at all .  When one lives in the world , a man or woman 's marrying for money is too common to strike one as it ought .  Lady Russell took her out in her carriage almost every morning , and she never failed to think of them , and never failed to see them .  Marianne 's joy was almost a degree beyond happiness , so great was the perturbation of her spirits and her impatience to be gone .  Bought at Weymouth , you know -- Mr. Dixon 's choice .  They had taken out a young dog , who had spoilt their sport , and sent them back early .  I was ready to have gone with her , but this will do just as well .  I hope you turned directly . ''  It was nothing more than that his pen had fallen down ; but Anne was startled at finding him nearer than she had supposed , and half inclined to suspect that the pen had only fallen because he had been occupied by them , striving to catch sounds , which yet she did not think he could have caught .  I hope it is not to say that your sister is worse . ''  he had never written , hardly ever , any thing of the kind in his life .  Never had any week passed so quickly -- he could hardly believe it to be gone .  Mr. Weston , however , too eager to be very observant , too communicative to want others to talk , was very well satisfied with what she did say , and soon moved away to make the rest of his friends happy by a partial communication of what the whole room must have overheard already .  He had reached Randalls the evening before .  Anne was astonished to recognise the same hills and the same objects so soon .  He feared there must be some decided involvement .  But they have a great many to provide for ; and among the thousands that may just as well go to the bottom as not , it is impossible for them to distinguish the very set who may be least missed . ''  If he were a little spoilt by such universal , such eager admiration , who could wonder ?  My beau , indeed !  They were quite naked , but they had wee little scissors and hammers and thread .  He drove his heels into the snail's sides , to make him hurry .  Any nonsense will serve .  But I can not imagine how I could be so off my guard .  They made the barn into a theatre , and the grown-up people came to see the plays they acted .  However , I am much happier as I am .  For once in your life you would be obliged to own yourself mistaken .  `` Ah , very well , let us go home now . ''  Jane 's curiosity did not appear of that absorbing nature as wholly to occupy her .  I have just received my dispatches , and taken my farewell of Allenham ; and by way of exhilaration I am now come to take my farewell of you . ''  `` It will be natural for me , '' he added shortly afterwards , `` to speak my opinion aloud as I read .  I will have dinner elsewhere . ''  The interest with which she thus anticipated the party , was soon afterwards increased , more powerfully than pleasantly , by her hearing that the Miss Steeles were also to be at it .  It was only the last time they met that he had offered him one of Folly 's puppies !  `` Thank you , dear Miss Woodhouse .  I always think that no mutual -- ''  This was his only secret exception , when he said to his sister , in answer to her suppositions : --  `` Middling , my dear ; I can not compliment you .  She was delighted with the fortitude of her little friend -- for fortitude she knew it was in her to give up being in company and stay at home ; and she could now invite the very person whom she really wanted to make the eighth , Jane Fairfax. -- Since her last conversation with Mrs. Weston and Mr. Knightley , she was more conscience-stricken about Jane Fairfax than she had often been. -- Mr .  He was standing by himself at a printshop window , with his hands behind him , in earnest contemplation of some print , and she not only might have passed him unseen , but was obliged to touch as well as address him before she could catch his notice .  Mr. Churchill would never get over it . ''  But she was always right .  And when he was being carried away on the sledge he lay wondering , _so_ contentedly , whether he should be the mast of a ship or part of a fine city house .  CHAPTER 34  If she had only made me a formal courtesy , for instance , without saying a word , and never after had took any notice of me , and never looked at me in a pleasant way -- you know what I mean -- if I had been treated in that forbidding sort of way , I should have gave it all up in despair .  His genius and ardour had seemed to foresee and to command his prosperous path .  Anne could not have supposed it possible that her first evening in Camden Place could have passed so well !  It was too much for Margery .  as fast as you can !  A _small_ half-glass , put into a tumbler of water ?  She went to Mrs. Goddard 's accordingly the very next day , to undergo the necessary penance of communication ; and a severe one it was. -- She had to destroy all the hopes which she had been so industriously feeding -- to appear in the ungracious character of the one preferred -- and acknowledge herself grossly mistaken and mis-judging in all her ideas on one subject , all her observations , all her convictions , all her prophecies for the last six weeks .  One of the Merry Little Breezes had carried the scent of that fat trout over to him .  `` And so you actually put this piece of court-plaister by for his sake ! ''  `` Emma , why is it that they are your enemies ? ''  In the southern clime , Where the summer 's prime Never fades away , Lovely Lyca lay .  `` I did . ''  I believe I have lived as much on board as most women , and I know nothing superior to the accommodations of a man-of-war .  Mrs. Weston ought to have found more in it , for she had a husband whose warm heart and sweet temper made him think every thing due to her in return for the great goodness of being in love with him ; but though she had one sort of spirit , she had not the best .  This was gaining something , something to look forward to .  `` About eighteen hundred or two thousand a year ; not more than THAT . ''  `` He writes like a sensible man , '' replied Emma , when she had read the letter .  Eight years and a half is a period . ''  `` I believe about two thousand a year . ''  They will stay a good while when they do come , and he will be half his time with us .  --  In such cases my interference was giving you two bad feelings instead of one . ''  Elinor set him right as to its situation ; and it seemed rather surprising to him that anybody could live in Devonshire , without living near Dawlish .  Quite a surprize to me !  Then it rolled under a big round root .  The party before her were , Mrs Musgrove , talking to Mrs Croft , and Captain Harville to Captain Wentworth ; and she immediately heard that Mary and Henrietta , too impatient to wait , had gone out the moment it had cleared , but would be back again soon , and that the strictest injunctions had been left with Mrs Musgrove to keep her there till they returned .  Then he began to chuckle and finally to laugh .  The Wallises , she had amusement in understanding them .  It was only to ask Elinor to marry him ; -- and considering that he was not altogether inexperienced in such a question , it might be strange that he should feel so uncomfortable in the present case as he really did , so much in need of encouragement and fresh air .  It had not been necessary , and the few occasions of its being possible for her to go to the Hall she had contrived to evade and escape from .  Her exertions did not stop here ; for she soon afterwards felt herself so heroically disposed as to determine , under pretence of fetching Marianne , to leave the others by themselves ; and she really did it , and THAT in the handsomest manner , for she loitered away several minutes on the landing-place , with the most high-minded fortitude , before she went to her sister .  You seem shut out from every thing -- in the most complete retirement. -- And Mrs. Churchill probably has not health or spirits like Selina to enjoy that sort of seclusion .  I think it is the state of mind which gives most spirit and delight .  It was the end of an old pencil , -- the part without any lead .  Every body pretends to feel and tries to describe with the taste and elegance of him who first defined what picturesque beauty was .  It was before tea -- stay -- no , it could not be before tea , because we were just going to cards -- and yet it was before tea , because I remember thinking -- Oh !  At any rate , said I , it will be better than a long engagement . ''  Will not it be beautiful in her dark hair ? ''  `` I remember once calling you `George , ' in one of my amiable fits , about ten years ago .  The City Mouse just whispered , `` Sh ! ''  `` You are mistaken , Elinor ; you are very much mistaken .  It has been dignified and liberal .  cried Emma , `` this has been a most unfortunate -- most deplorable mistake ! -- What is to be done ? ''  He took his axe and his saw , and he made a thing like a crate , and he told the fox to get into it so that he could see whether it would fit him .  `` But you need not imagine Mr. Weston to have felt what you would feel in giving up Henry or John .  However , you will think of all that at your leisure . ''  In the course of the spring she must return their civilities by one very superior party -- in which her card-tables should be set out with their separate candles and unbroken packs in the true style -- and more waiters engaged for the evening than their own establishment could furnish , to carry round the refreshments at exactly the proper hour , and in the proper order .  I must have given you up . ''  Marianne , not contented with absolutely refusing to go herself , was very urgent to prevent her sister 's going at all ; and Mrs. Jennings , though her carriage was always at Elinor 's service , so very much disliked Mrs. John Dashwood , that not even her curiosity to see how she looked after the late discovery , nor her strong desire to affront her by taking Edward 's part , could overcome her unwillingness to be in her company again .  Mr. Knightley was to dine with them -- rather against the inclination of Mr. Woodhouse , who did not like that any one should share with him in Isabella 's first day .  `` They will be brought up , '' said he , in a serious accent , `` to be as unlike myself as is possible .  `` He may have a great deal of influence on some points , '' continued Mrs. Weston , `` and on others , very little : and among those , on which she is beyond his reach , it is but too likely , may be this very circumstance of his coming away from them to visit us . ''  Altogether , they will have five hundred a-year amongst them , and what on earth can four women want for more than that ? -- They will live so cheap !  How well you put it on ! -- so gratified !  If thought is life And strength and breath And the want Of thought is death ; Then am I A happy fly , If I live , Or if I die .  `` Was he handsome ? ''  If he had come at Christmas he could not have staid three days ; I was always glad he did not come at Christmas ; now we are going to have just the right weather for him , fine , dry , settled weather .  `` How odd you are !  I leave you to your own reflections . ''  `` Pray be quick , sir , '' -- said Elinor , impatiently ; -- `` I have no time to spare . ''  And truly , the Heavenly Father had sent with the Holy Babe His blessings of Peace and Goodwill to all .  If Miss Woodhouse would not be displeased , she would rather stay at home . ''  Yes , it was perfectly harmless .  `` I do not consider its length as particularly in its favour .  Your sister is certainly better , certainly out of danger ? ''  But that was not smart enough for my family .  `` You are expecting her again , you say , this morning ? ''  He certainly loved her .  Gone to Mr. Woodhouse 's .  `` 'Warmer grow the sunbeams , and softer the air .  Has Perry seen her ?  Out past him rushed the figure of a man in tattered , scanty clothes , with unkempt hair and white , wild face .  If her sisters intended to walk on the downs , she directly stole away towards the lanes ; if they talked of the valley , she was as speedy in climbing the hills , and could never be found when the others set off .  `` But still , you will be an old maid !  When he told how Buster had been too smart for Little Joe , it tickled him so that Billy had to laugh in spite of himself .  Little Emma , grow up a better woman than your aunt .  `` I have known her from a child , undoubtedly ; we have been children and women together ; and it is natural to suppose that we should be intimate , -- that we should have taken to each other whenever she visited her friends .  `` Captain Benwick , would not it be better for Captain Benwick ?  Busy as he was , however , the young man was yet able to shew a most happy countenance on seeing Emma again .  Well , '' ( turning away ) , `` now , where are you bound ?  `` Pretty well , ma'am in the fifteen years of my marriage ; though many women have done more .  what would Frank Churchill say to her , if he were here ?  `` Upon my word it is , Miss Bates. -- He really is engaged from morning to night. -- There is no end of people 's coming to him , on some pretence or other. -- The magistrates , and overseers , and churchwardens , are always wanting his opinion .  How glad they had been to hear papa invite him to stay dinner , how sorry when he said it was quite out of his power , and how glad again when he had promised in reply to papa and mamma 's farther pressing invitations to come and dine with them on the morrow -- actually on the morrow ; and he had promised it in so pleasant a manner , as if he felt all the motive of their attention just as he ought .  Ten couple may stand here very well . ''  `` Mrs. Gilbert does not mean to dance , but there is a young lady disengaged whom I should be very glad to see dancing -- Miss Smith . ''  Marianne remained perfectly silent , though her countenance betrayed her interest in what was said .  His manly beauty and more than common gracefulness were instantly the theme of general admiration , and the laugh which his gallantry raised against Marianne received particular spirit from his exterior attractions. -- Marianne herself had seen less of his person that the rest , for the confusion which crimsoned over her face , on his lifting her up , had robbed her of the power of regarding him after their entering the house .  I thought it my duty as a friend , and older than yourself , to say thus much to you .  `` I wished very much to call upon you yesterday , '' said he , `` but it was impossible , for we were obliged to take Harry to see the wild beasts at Exeter Exchange ; and we spent the rest of the day with Mrs. Ferrars .  But Charlotte , she would not be satisfied , so Mr. Donavan was sent for ; and luckily he happened to just come in from Harley Street , so he stepped over directly , and as soon as ever he saw the child , be said just as we did , that it was nothing in the world but the red gum , and then Charlotte was easy .  I declare I had no idea !  _Her_ connexions may be worse than _his_ .  Education has been theirs in so much higher a degree ; the pen has been in their hands .  Emma was silenced .  `` You have had your little boys with you ? ''  By the report which he hastened over to Kellynch to make , Admiral Croft was a native of Somersetshire , who having acquired a very handsome fortune , was wishing to settle in his own country , and had come down to Taunton in order to look at some advertised places in that immediate neighbourhood , which , however , had not suited him ; that accidentally hearing -- ( it was just as he had foretold , Mr Shepherd observed , Sir Walter 's concerns could not be kept a secret , ) -- accidentally hearing of the possibility of Kellynch Hall being to let , and understanding his ( Mr Shepherd 's ) connection with the owner , he had introduced himself to him in order to make particular inquiries , and had , in the course of a pretty long conference , expressed as strong an inclination for the place as a man who knew it only by description could feel ; and given Mr Shepherd , in his explicit account of himself , every proof of his being a most responsible , eligible tenant .  THE BLACKBERRY-BUSH A little boy sat at his mother 's knees , by the long western window , looking out into the garden .  Mr. Knightley , is not she ? ''  Mrs. Churchill will not be second to any lady in the land for '' --  I suppose it is something he is ashamed of . ''  Shall I tell you my guess ? ''  Berkeley Street , January .  I have not known you long to be sure , personally at least , but I have known you and all your family by description a great while ; and as soon as I saw you , I felt almost as if you was an old acquaintance .  But the rain was also a mere trifle to Mrs Clay ; she would hardly allow it even to drop at all , and her boots were so thick !  Elizabeth was certainly very handsome , with well-bred , elegant manners , and her character might never have been penetrated by Mr Elliot , knowing her but in public , and when very young himself .  To you , he will talk of farming ; to me , of drawing or music ; and so on to every body , having that general information on all subjects which will enable him to follow the lead , or take the lead , just as propriety may require , and to speak extremely well on each ; that is my idea of him . ''  She would be such a delightful companion for Emma . ''  His mother had some old friends in Bath whom she wanted to see ; it was thought a good opportunity for Henrietta to come and buy wedding-clothes for herself and her sister ; and , in short , it ended in being his mother 's party , that everything might be comfortable and easy to Captain Harville ; and he and Mary were included in it by way of general convenience .  Delighted to hear it indeed .  `` Mr Elliot is an exceedingly agreeable man , and in many respects I think highly of him , '' said Anne ; `` but we should not suit . ''  run !  To the Middletons , to the Palmers , the Steeles , to every common acquaintance even , I had been insolent and unjust ; with a heart hardened against their merits , and a temper irritated by their very attention. -- To John , to Fanny , -- yes , even to them , little as they deserve , I had given less than their due .  The white horse went down into the hole , but when he tried to come up again , he was not able .  If this is living in the country , it is nothing very formidable .  But Sir John could not prevail .  The Randalls party agreed to it immediately ; and after a pretty long speech from Miss Bates , which few persons listened to , she also found it possible to accept dear Miss Woodhouse 's most obliging invitation .  and the Doctor is a single man , I warrant you . ''  `` God save you , '' said the tailor .  It was adventuring too far , assuming too much , making light of what ought to be serious , a trick of what ought to be simple .  Some letters had passed between her and her brother , in consequence of Marianne 's illness ; and in the first of John 's , there had been this sentence : -- `` We know nothing of our unfortunate Edward , and can make no enquiries on so prohibited a subject , but conclude him to be still at Oxford ; '' which was all the intelligence of Edward afforded her by the correspondence , for his name was not even mentioned in any of the succeeding letters .  How that visit was to be acknowledged -- what would be necessary -- and what might be safest , had been a point of some doubtful consideration .  How could she have exposed herself to such ill opinion in any one she valued !  for I think you have a little cold , and Patty has been washing the kitchen . ' -- `Oh !  [ Emma by Jane Austen 1816 ]  or is it equally criminal in every body ?  `` It is unfortunate that they can not stay longer -- but it seems a case of necessity .  It was not possible that the occurrence should not be strongly recommending each to the other .  You have already ascertained Mr. Willoughby 's opinion in almost every matter of importance .  `` It is as long again as almost all we have had before . ''  `` It 's the Sunshine , '' said a little , soft , cheery voice , `` and I want to come in ! ''  I do assure you that you owe it entirely , at least almost entirely , to your own merit , and Colonel Brandon 's discernment of it .  Emma laughed and disclaimed .  I meet them wherever I go ; and I declare , I never go twice into my nursery without seeing something of them .  `` You are right , Mrs. Weston , '' said Mr. Knightley warmly , `` Miss Fairfax is as capable as any of us of forming a just opinion of Mrs. Elton .  CHAPTER 24  `` You had better explore to Donwell , '' replied Mr. Knightley .  When Lady Middleton rose to go away , Mr. Palmer rose also , laid down the newspaper , stretched himself and looked at them all around .  The Little Fir Tree could not breathe , for joy and wonder .  `` My mother 's deafness is very trifling you see -- just nothing at all .  He will be able to tell her how we all are . ''  She did not blame Lady Russell , she did not blame herself for having been guided by her ; but she felt that were any young person , in similar circumstances , to apply to her for counsel , they would never receive any of such certain immediate wretchedness , such uncertain future good .  Did not I do right ? -- And I suppose you had no great difficulty -- You did not find him very unwilling to accept your proposal ? ''  I used to think she was not capable of being fond of any body , except herself : but she has always been kind to him ( in her way -- allowing for little whims and caprices , and expecting every thing to be as she likes ) .  The consideration of Mrs. Dennison 's mistake , in supposing his sisters their guests , had suggested the propriety of their being really invited to become such , while Mrs. Jenning 's engagements kept her from home .  She left it to himself to recollect , that Mrs Smith was not the only widow in Bath between thirty and forty , with little to live on , and no surname of dignity .  `` To be sure .  `` I am sorry I do NOT , '' said Elinor , in great astonishment , `` if it could be of any use to YOU to know my opinion of her .  `` And the next news , I suppose , will be , that we are to lose you -- just as I begin to know you . ''  What shall I call thee ?  She had this communication , moreover , from Mary .  I want you to save yourself from greater pain .  At this the old Alligator was beside himself with rage .  But remember not to talk !  `` Indeed !  `` Yes , and what you told me on that head , confirmed an idea which I had entertained before. -- I do not mean to reflect upon the good intentions of either Mr. Dixon or Miss Fairfax , but I can not help suspecting either that , after making his proposals to her friend , he had the misfortune to fall in love with _her_ , or that he became conscious of a little attachment on her side .  But I never went beyond the Streights , and never was in the West Indies .  Every body was punctual , every body in their best looks : not a tear , and hardly a long face to be seen .  He will not be led astray ; he will not be misled by others to his ruin . ''  No , Sir , there was n't so much as a crumb left of those two thick sandwiches .  I wish you may not catch cold . ''  But your sister does not -- I think you said so -- she does not consider quite as you do ? ''  `` I do not know , my dear -- but it is so long since she was here ! -- not since last Easter , and then only for a few days. -- Mr .  The same soft little voice answered , `` It 's the Rain , and I want to come in ! ''  The rest of the day , the following night , were hardly enough for her thoughts. -- She was bewildered amidst the confusion of all that had rushed on her within the last few hours .  Everything in and about the house would be taken such excellent care of !  Captain Benwick came not , however .  `` I shall be happier to burn it , '' replied Harriet .  HER wisdom too limited the number of their servants to three ; two maids and a man , with whom they were speedily provided from amongst those who had formed their establishment at Norland .  `` I understand you , '' said Elinor .  A host approaches in haste , to burn the dwelling of the king . ''  `` I 'm going to Dublin to make a court for the king if I am able to make it , '' said the tailor .  The six mince pies sat cooling in a row on the doorstep .  CHAPTER XIX  Elinor 's marriage divided her as little from her family as could well be contrived , without rendering the cottage at Barton entirely useless , for her mother and sisters spent much more than half their time with her .  Thomas 's intelligence seemed over .  `` You decide on his imperfections so much in the mass , '' replied Elinor , `` and so much on the strength of your own imagination , that the commendation I am able to give of him is comparatively cold and insipid .  It is a mere nothing after all ; and not the least draught from the stairs . ''  But the little Red Hen lived happily ever after , in her own little farmhouse .  Late hours do not agree with us .  Miss Elliot was to have the honour of calling on Mrs Musgrove in the course of the morning ; and Anne walked off with Charles and Mary , to go and see her and Henrietta directly .  `` So , you are come at last !  And then he called his son and said , 'Go out to-night and hire reapers , and to-morrow we will begin to cut . ' ''  She always takes the right time for applying .  Allowances , large allowances , she knew , must be made for the ideas of those who spoke .  A man who had been in motion since eight o'clock in the morning , and might now have been still , who had been long talking , and might have been silent , who had been in more than one crowd , and might have been alone ! -- Such a man , to quit the tranquillity and independence of his own fireside , and on the evening of a cold sleety April day rush out again into the world ! -- Could he by a touch of his finger have instantly taken back his wife , there would have been a motive ; but his coming would probably prolong rather than break up the party .  I thought it had been only a joke , but so serious a question seems to imply more ; and I must beg , therefore , that you will not deceive yourself any longer .  And as the day passed , and the Cloud became larger , this wish to do something for the people of earth was ever greater in her heart .  -- thought Emma. -- '' You have not deserved this .  Can any thing be stronger ? ''  `` Jane , Jane , my dear Jane , where are you ? -- Here is your tippet .  For it is not five minutes since I received Mrs. Cole 's note -- no , it can not be more than five -- or at least ten -- for I had got my bonnet and spencer on , just ready to come out -- I was only gone down to speak to Patty again about the pork -- Jane was standing in the passage -- were not you , Jane ? -- for my mother was so afraid that we had not any salting-pan large enough .  I believe you were glad we danced no longer ; but I would have given worlds -- all the worlds one ever has to give -- for another half-hour . ''  in a tone that implied -- '' do you really think him selfish ? ''  `` No , '' replied Anne , in a low , feeling voice .  And so saying , she took the screens out of her sister-in-law 's hands , to admire them herself as they ought to be admired .  He shook himself .  And it was entirely for HER sake , and upon HER account , that he said a word about being off , and not upon his own .  She was not so materially cast down , however , but that a little time and the return of Harriet were very adequate restoratives .  From where He lay the Christ Child could see the great dark evening world and the darker forms of the trees keeping watch , like faithful guardians , beside the open door of the stable ; and to its delight the Fir Tree saw the face of the Babe illumined with a heavenly smile as He looked upon the twinkling lights .  She had , while a very young girl , as soon as she had known him to be , in the event of her having no brother , the future baronet , meant to marry him , and her father had always meant that she should .  I am sure there is nobody 's praise that could give us so much pleasure as Miss Woodhouse 's .  `` I must have asked Miss Fairfax , and her languid dancing would not have agreed with me , after your 's . ''  `` And while Mrs. Weston pays her visit , I may be allowed , I hope , '' said Frank Churchill , `` to join your party and wait for her at Hartfield -- if you are going home . ''  She had depended on a twilight walk to the Grecian temple , and perhaps all over the grounds , and an evening merely cold or damp would not have deterred her from it ; but a heavy and settled rain even SHE could not fancy dry or pleasant weather for walking .  had she never brought Harriet forward !  If Elizabeth could but have heard this !  `` Either the trout have lost their appetite or they have grown very wise , '' muttered Farmer Brown 's boy , as after a long time he moved on to the next little pool .  Elinor made no resistance that was not easily overcome .  After a moment 's recollection , therefore , concluding that prudence required dispatch , and that her acquiescence would best promote it , she walked silently towards the table , and sat down .  And with curses he cried out again , `` Come to me , and I will give thy flesh unto the fowls of the air , and to the beasts of the field . ''  The whole of Lucy 's behaviour in the affair , and the prosperity which crowned it , therefore , may be held forth as a most encouraging instance of what an earnest , an unceasing attention to self-interest , however its progress may be apparently obstructed , will do in securing every advantage of fortune , with no other sacrifice than that of time and conscience .  I have not always known their writing apart . ''  Emma was more than half in hopes of Mr. Elton 's having dropt a hint .  A young _woman_ , if she fall into bad hands , may be teazed , and kept at a distance from those she wants to be with ; but one can not comprehend a young _man_ 's being under such restraint , as not to be able to spend a week with his father , if he likes it . ''  It was a very hot day .  Make music , so that I may not hear these dreadful whispers ! ''  You may see the end of the house .  Mrs Smith !  And the more sensibility you betray of their just horrors , the more I shall like you . ''  A party was formed this evening for going on the following day to see a very fine place about twelve miles from Barton , belonging to a brother-in-law of Colonel Brandon , without whose interest it could not be seen , as the proprietor , who was then abroad , had left strict orders on that head .  flashed the Diamond , with fine disdain -- '' the impudent fellow merely apes and imitates ME .  `` I -- I guess it was n't the fault of that thing .  cried Mrs. Palmer , with a laugh , `` I shall be quite disappointed if you do not .  `` I am no match-maker , as you well know , '' said Lady Russell , `` being much too well aware of the uncertainty of all human events and calculations .  You could make it into two parcels , Mrs. Ford , could not you ? ''  my dear , we can not begin too early ; you are not aware of the difficulty of procuring exactly the desirable thing . ''  Both anger and fear make it do that .  Elton ? ''  `` It is very true , '' said Marianne , `` that admiration of landscape scenery is become a mere jargon .  I am a little acquainted with Captain Benwick . ''  `` Your sister 's marriage . ''  After a short pause he resumed the conversation by saying , --  The hermit stood and looked at him with terror and sadness , for he felt that he was looking at his own soul .  `` She expects to be confined in February , '' continued Mrs. Jennings .  And he smiled with such seeming pleasure at the conviction , that she must proceed another step .  Emma had no opportunity of speaking to Mr. Knightley till after supper ; but , when they were all in the ballroom again , her eyes invited him irresistibly to come to her and be thanked .  `` You ca n't catch me , I 'm the Gingerbread Man ! ''  when a gallant young man , like Mr. Frank Churchill , '' said Mr. Knightley dryly , `` writes to a fair lady like Miss Woodhouse , he will , of course , put forth his best . ''  The way to carry butter is to wrap it up in some leaves and take it down to the brook , and cool it in the water , and cool it in the water , and cool it in the water , and then take it on your hands , careful , and bring it along home . ''  `` Well , '' said she to herself , `` this is most strange ! -- After I had got him off so well , to chuse to go into company , and leave Harriet ill behind ! -- Most strange indeed ! -- But there is , I believe , in many men , especially single men , such an inclination -- such a passion for dining out -- a dinner engagement is so high in the class of their pleasures , their employments , their dignities , almost their duties , that any thing gives way to it -- and this must be the case with Mr. Elton ; a most valuable , amiable , pleasing young man undoubtedly , and very much in love with Harriet ; but still , he can not refuse an invitation , he must dine out wherever he is asked .  `` Certainly not ; but if you observe , people always live for ever when there is an annuity to be paid them ; and she is very stout and healthy , and hardly forty .  said the Brahmin , `` does it seem at all right or fair to you that this Tiger should eat me up , when I have just now let him out of a cage ? ''  He felt their soft little touches on his head and his twigs and his branches .  To Anne , it chiefly wore the prospect of an hour of agitation .  asked the prince in surprise .  born but to smile & fall .  Mrs. Cole seemed to be relating something of her that was expected to be very interesting .  When the fox was satisfied at last that he had a nice place of it within , he asked the tailor to let him out , and the tailor answered that he would not .  `` Thank you , '' cried Lucy warmly , `` for breaking the ice ; you have set my heart at ease by it ; for I was somehow or other afraid I had offended you by what I told you that Monday . ''  What could he mean by such horrible indelicacy ?  And Lucy perhaps at first might think only of procuring his good offices in my favour .  Elinor submitted to the arrangement which counteracted her wishes with less reluctance than she had expected to feel .  The card was pointedly given , and Sir Walter and Elizabeth arose and disappeared .  While she remained , a bush of low rambling holly protected her , and they were moving on .  There was a tiny necklace inside !  And she picked the little Half-Chick up by one leg and threw him out of the window .  Well , by-and-by we shall have a few friends , and that will amuse her a little .  An interval of meditation , serious and grateful , was the best corrective of everything dangerous in such high-wrought felicity ; and she went to her room , and grew steadfast and fearless in the thankfulness of her enjoyment .  `` Now , Palmer , you shall see a monstrous pretty girl . ''  `` Miss Fairfax , I suppose , though you were not aware of it , had been making up her mind the whole day ? ''  `` I knew you by report long before you came to Bath .  Nothing remains ; O maid I tell thee , when I pass away .  I shall never forget his flying Henry 's kite for him that very windy day last Easter -- and ever since his particular kindness last September twelvemonth in writing that note , at twelve o'clock at night , on purpose to assure me that there was no scarlet fever at Cobham , I have been convinced there could not be a more feeling heart nor a better man in existence. -- If any body can deserve him , it must be Miss Taylor . ''  Marianne moved to the window --  It was Miss Taylor 's loss which first brought grief .  Ferrars . ''  And I think she feels it .  `` But the letter , Mr. Willoughby , your own letter ; have you any thing to say about that ? ''  Oh !  In that case , nothing could be more pitiable or more honourable than the sacrifices she had resolved on .  It was only the reflection in the water !  `` Kindest regards .  Mrs. Dashwood , who could not think a man five years younger than herself , so exceedingly ancient as he appeared to the youthful fancy of her daughter , ventured to clear Mrs. Jennings from the probability of wishing to throw ridicule on his age .  `` What do you say to Mrs .  It would only be giving trouble and distress .  What finer breakfast could any one have than fresh-caught trout ?  When they had paid their tribute of politeness by curtsying to the lady of the house , they were permitted to mingle in the crowd , and take their share of the heat and inconvenience , to which their arrival must necessarily add .  no -- there is nothing to surprize one at all. -- A pretty fortune ; and she came in his way . ''  The happiness of this most happy day , received its completion , in the animated contemplation of his worth which this comparison produced .  THE SCHOOLBOY I love to rise on a summer morn , When birds are singing on every tree ; The distant huntsman winds his horn , And the skylark sings with me : Oh what sweet company !  She never did , you know .  Colonel Wallis had known Mr Elliot long , had been well acquainted also with his wife , had perfectly understood the whole story .  I used to think she had some taste in dress , but I was ashamed of her at the concert .  But , my dear , is not this rather out of character ?  `` Not quite .  Emma was a good deal surprized ; but begged her to speak .  She took them all most affectionately by the hand , and expressed great delight in seeing them again .  At last it happened that the Emperor came upon a book which said this , and he at once sent for his Chamberlain .  `` No , sir , '' replied his son , laughing , `` I seem to have had it from nobody. -- Very odd ! -- I really was persuaded of Mrs. Weston 's having mentioned it in one of her letters to Enscombe , many weeks ago , with all these particulars -- but as she declares she never heard a syllable of it before , of course it must have been a dream .  If he be able to fight with me , and to kill me , then will we be your servants ; but if I prevail against him , and kill him , then shall ye be our servants , and serve us .  Then turning to Mrs. Weston , with a look of gentle reproach -- '' Ah !  I know we shall be happy .  Whenever I looked towards the past , I saw some duty neglected , or some failing indulged .  We really seem quite the fashion .  It is a very cold afternoon -- but in this carriage we know nothing of the matter. -- Ha !  `` The shame , '' he answered , `` is all mine , or ought to be .  And under such a supposition , which would have been most miserable , when time had disclosed all , too late ?  `` Really ! -- Well , this is very astonishing ! -- no relationship ! -- no connection between them ! -- and now that livings fetch such a price ! -- what was the value of this ? ''  `` But why should you be sorry , sir ? -- I assure you , it did the children a great deal of good . ''  Wolf ! ''  `` Such an imagination has crossed me , I own , Emma ; and if it never occurred to you before , you may as well take it into consideration now . ''  ANOTHER LITTLE RED HEN Once upon a time there was a little Red Hen , who lived on a farm all by herself .  It seems , on the contrary , to have been a perfectly spontaneous , untaught feeling on his side , and this surprises me .  He came to the Abbey two evenings ago , on purpose to consult me about it .  but indeed I would much rather have it only in one .  The tailor went forward the next day , and he had not walked very far when he met a lion ; and the lion greeted him .  David heard them talking among themselves , whispering and murmuring .  Letters are no matter of indifference ; they are generally a very positive curse . ''  She soon resolved , equally as a duty and a pleasure , to employ half an hour of this holiday of spirits in calling on Miss Fairfax. -- She ought to go -- and she was longing to see her ; the resemblance of their present situations increasing every other motive of goodwill .  To the Great House accordingly they went , to sit the full half hour in the old-fashioned square parlour , with a small carpet and shining floor , to which the present daughters of the house were gradually giving the proper air of confusion by a grand piano-forte and a harp , flower-stands and little tables placed in every direction .  It is not Swisserland , but it will be something for a young man so much in want of a change .  `` To be sure I am .  This long meadow bordered a lane , which their footpath , at the end of it was to cross , and when the party had all reached the gate of exit , the carriage advancing in the same direction , which had been some time heard , was just coming up , and proved to be Admiral Croft 's gig .  But it was only for a second , and then he was scurrying off as fast as a frightened Squirrel could .  You see , Old Man Coyote had found them and gobbled them up while Farmer Brown's boy was away .  I remember her promising to give you some .  I would not have Mr. Knightley know any thing about it for the world !  I want some fat trout for my breakfast . ''  She was rather low all the evening , but Emma could allow for her amiable regrets , and sometimes relieved them by speaking of her own affection , sometimes by bringing forward the idea of Mr. Elton .  `` God save you , '' said the tailor .  I do not mean to say that I am particularly observant or quick-sighted in general , but in such a case I am sure I could not be deceived . ''  `` Is there no one to help me ? ''  He wondered why all the little children looked so white and tired ; he did not know that he was in a hospital .  Upon my word we shall be absolutely dissipated .  `` Has your son been with you , then ? ''  `` I am happy you approved , '' said Emma , smiling ; `` but I hope I am not often deficient in what is due to guests at Hartfield . ''  `` I do ! ''  `` Oh !  While waiting till the other young people could pair themselves off , Emma found time , in spite of the compliments she was receiving on her voice and her taste , to look about , and see what became of Mr. Knightley .  I am all amazement !  `` We have heard Sir John admire it excessively , '' said Lucy , who seemed to think some apology necessary for the freedom of her sister .  The Emperor ran to his doctor , but he could not do anything .  I once belonged to the most wicked band of mountain robbers that ever tormented the land , and I was as wicked as the worst . ''  Mary had no feelings to make her respect her sister 's in a common way , but she was perfectly unsuspicious of being inflicting any peculiar wound .  He told me the whole story .  Emma 's going away directly after tea might be giving offence .  Marianne 's countenance was more communicative .  He made it his business to go to Lyme , and his account was still encouraging .  ( laughing heartily ) ; `` I would not venture over a horsepond in it .  Her silence disturbed him ; and after observing her a little while , he added ,  My mother often wonders that I can make it out so well .  They were going to remove immediately to Richmond .  She was still in the astonishment and confusion excited by her friend 's penetration , unable to imagine how any report of Captain Wentworth could have reached her .  He , the king , had been left alone in the church , to awake in the dark !  `` No more it is . ''  Frank comes to-morrow -- I had a letter this morning -- we see him to-morrow by dinner-time to a certainty -- he is at Oxford to-day , and he comes for a whole fortnight ; I knew it would be so .  You are forced on exertion .  Not a step would he budge for all the coaxing and scolding and beating his rider could give .  Precious as was the company of her daughter to her , she desired nothing so much as to give up its constant enjoyment to her valued friend ; and to see Marianne settled at the mansion-house was equally the wish of Edward and Elinor .  He had caught both substance and shadow -- both fortune and affection , and was just the happy man he ought to be ; talking only of himself and his own concerns -- expecting to be congratulated -- ready to be laughed at -- and , with cordial , fearless smiles , now addressing all the young ladies of the place , to whom , a few weeks ago , he would have been more cautiously gallant .  I was hers in honour if she wished it .  We must bring her forward .  `` Nothing to the purpose , '' replied her brother .  What I endured in so beholding her -- but I have no right to wound your feelings by attempting to describe it -- I have pained you too much already .  Wherever they went , she was evidently always on the watch .  I assure you it has been the greatest satisfaction , comfort , and delight to me , to hear what a musical society I am got into .  To feel that she ought to be in better circumstances , that a little trouble in the right place might do it , and to fear that delay might be even weakening her claims , was hard to bear .  And the next moment she was hating herself for the folly which asked the question .  poor dear , '' immediately gave her her salts ; and Sir John felt so desperately enraged against the author of this nervous distress , that he instantly changed his seat to one close by Lucy Steele , and gave her , in a whisper , a brief account of the whole shocking affair .  Yes , Sir , that 's what it was , and all it was .  This speech at first puzzled Mrs. Jennings exceedingly .  `` It is a great relief to me -- what Elinor told me this morning -- I have now heard exactly what I wished to hear . ''  I suppose he was afraid of finding it dull ; but upon my word I should have thought we were lively enough at the Cottage for such a heart-broken man as Captain Benwick . ''  `` Is there a felicity in the world , '' said Marianne , `` superior to this ? -- Margaret , we will walk here at least two hours . ''  And as he named the fingers , one after another , the tiny fairies bowed their tiny heads ; there was a fairy for every name .  She is not a sensible girl , nor a girl of any information .  `` Sometimes . ''  One consolation however remained for them , to which the exigence of the moment gave more than usual propriety ; it was that of running with all possible speed down the steep side of the hill which led immediately to their garden gate .  He wishes exceedingly to come ; but his uncle and aunt will not spare him . ''  It was not in compliment to Jane Fairfax however that he was so indifferent , or so indignant ; he was not guided by _her_ feelings in reprobating the ball , for _she_ enjoyed the thought of it to an extraordinary degree .  he exclaimed -- '' Improve this dear cottage !  He had begun to talk of it a week ago ; and by way of doing something , as shooting was over , Charles had proposed coming with him , and Mrs Harville had seemed to like the idea of it very much , as an advantage to her husband ; but Mary could not bear to be left , and had made herself so unhappy about it , that for a day or two everything seemed to be in suspense , or at an end .  Then I went to the heath and the wild , To the thistles and thorns of the waste ; And they told me how they were beguiled , Driven out , and compelled to the chaste .  The child had a good night , and was going on well the next day .  If he were to be very alert in engaging Jane Fairfax now , it might augur something .  Hello !  Here ceased the rapid flow of her self-reproving spirit ; and Elinor , impatient to soothe , though too honest to flatter , gave her instantly that praise and support which her frankness and her contrition so well deserved .  Mrs. Palmer , in her way , was equally angry .  I do not know a more luxurious state , sir , than sitting at one 's ease to be entertained a whole evening by two such young women ; sometimes with music and sometimes with conversation .  `` We are going to Box Hill to-morrow ; -- you will join us .  Elizabeth was , in fact , revolving a great measure .  `` Depend upon it , they were all perfectly comfortable . ''  The Frogs in a certain swamp decided that they needed a king ; they had always got along perfectly well without one , but they suddenly made up their minds that a king they must have .  The service he rendered you was enough to warm your heart . ''  If a man had not a wife , he soon wants to be afloat again . ''  An ' whin he came in sight O ' his great din o ' rocks , Jist watchin ' for him at the door He shpied ould mither Fox .  `` Wait for his having a living ! -- ay , we all know how THAT will end : -- they will wait a twelvemonth , and finding no good comes of it , will set down upon a curacy of fifty pounds a-year , with the interest of his two thousand pounds , and what little matter Mr. Steele and Mr. Pratt can give her. -- Then they will have a child every year !  But when impudent little Chatterer the Red Squirrel shouted the same thing from a place just out of reach in a big pine-tree , Buster could stand it no longer .  Fanny Harville was a very superior creature , and his attachment to her was indeed attachment .  It was transient : cleared away in an instant ; but Anne could imagine she read there the consciousness of having , by some complication of mutual trick , or some overbearing authority of his , been obliged to attend ( perhaps for half an hour ) to his lectures and restrictions on her designs on Sir Walter .  As I am happily quite an altered creature in _one_ _respect_ , it is very fit that you should have the satisfaction of knowing it .  Nothing hastily done ; nothing incomplete .  Birth and good manners are essential ; but a little learning is by no means a dangerous thing in good company ; on the contrary , it will do very well .  --  The trundle-bed had castors on it so that it could be rolled about , and there was nothing in the world the little boy liked so much as to have it rolled .  `` I would ask for the pleasure of your company , Mr. Knightley , but I am a very slow walker , and my pace would be tedious to you ; and , besides , you have another long walk before you , to Donwell Abbey . ''  said his Mammy .  Harriet Smith 's intimacy at Hartfield was soon a settled thing .  You have always a profession , pursuits , business of some sort or other , to take you back into the world immediately , and continual occupation and change soon weaken impressions . ''  said the Camel .  `` Yes ; you see his papa can , and why should not I ?  Her second duty now , inferior only to her father 's claims , was to promote Harriet 's comfort , and endeavour to prove her own affection in some better method than by match-making .  Emma , in good spirits too , from the amusement afforded her mind by the expectation of Mr. Frank Churchill , was willing to forget his late improprieties , and be as well satisfied with him as before , and on his making Harriet his very first subject , was ready to listen with most friendly smiles .  She understood him .  cried the Admiral , `` what stuff these young fellows talk !  When Margaret was a tiny baby , her father and mother died , and she was adopted by two young people as poor and as kind as her own parents .  To atone for this conduct therefore , Elinor took immediate possession of the post of civility which she had assigned herself , behaved with the greatest attention to Mrs. Jennings , talked with her , laughed with her , and listened to her whenever she could ; and Mrs. Jennings on her side treated them both with all possible kindness , was solicitous on every occasion for their ease and enjoyment , and only disturbed that she could not make them choose their own dinners at the inn , nor extort a confession of their preferring salmon to cod , or boiled fowls to veal cutlets .  The repose of the latter became more and more disturbed ; and her sister , who watched , with unremitting attention her continual change of posture , and heard the frequent but inarticulate sounds of complaint which passed her lips , was almost wishing to rouse her from so painful a slumber , when Marianne , suddenly awakened by some accidental noise in the house , started hastily up , and , with feverish wildness , cried out , --  However , it is n't a bad habit unless it is carried too far .  Truth obliged her to acknowledge some small share in the action , but she was at the same time so unwilling to appear as the benefactress of Edward , that she acknowledged it with hesitation ; which probably contributed to fix that suspicion in his mind which had recently entered it .  But Little Jack Rollaround kept on crying , `` Roll around !  I 'll go up there at the very first peep of day to-morrow .  Mr. Weston was a great favourite , and there was not a creature in the world to whom she spoke with such unreserve , as to his wife ; not any one , to whom she related with such conviction of being listened to and understood , of being always interesting and always intelligible , the little affairs , arrangements , perplexities , and pleasures of her father and herself .  Nothing could replace him , therefore , in her former esteem , nor injure the interests of Colonel Brandon .  You know enough of him to do justice to his solid worth .  By that time , it was beginning to hold up , and I was determined that nothing should stop me from getting away -- and then -- only think ! -- I found he was coming up towards me too -- slowly you know , and as if he did not quite know what to do ; and so he came and spoke , and I answered -- and I stood for a minute , feeling dreadfully , you know , one ca n't tell how ; and then I took courage , and said it did not rain , and I must go ; and so off I set ; and I had not got three yards from the door , when he came after me , only to say , if I was going to Hartfield , he thought I had much better go round by Mr. Cole 's stables , for I should find the near way quite floated by this rain .  He slept deeply and long .  The Bath paper one morning announced the arrival of the Dowager Viscountess Dalrymple , and her daughter , the Honourable Miss Carteret ; and all the comfort of No. -- , Camden Place , was swept away for many days ; for the Dalrymples ( in Anne 's opinion , most unfortunately ) were cousins of the Elliots ; and the agony was how to introduce themselves properly .  And when he found that he was ahead of the mowers , he turned and shouted back to them , -- `` Run !  My poor little girl would be sadly disappointed , I know , if the basket was not finished tomorrow , for though I told her it certainly would not , I am sure she depends upon having it done . ''  `` Mr. Elton indeed ! ''  But why should you be cruel ?  Slowly , slowly , the little trundle-bed boat began to move ; it sailed along the floor and up the wall and across the ceiling and down again !  He shook his head with a smile , and looked as if he had very little doubt and very little mercy .  As this was the first time , the very first time , that they had ever known any one who lives in the Green Forest to make Farmer Brown's boy run away , they looked on Buster Bear with a great deal of respect and were very proud of him .  I told you he was plain . ''  There can be no want of gallantry , Admiral , in rating the claims of women to every personal comfort high , and this is what I do .  It did n't seem possible that such a little fellow as Billy Mink could have caught or frightened all the fish or have eaten so many .  He was furious with rage and surprise , and , stumbling through the dim aisles , he reached the great doors and beat at them , madly , shouting for his servants .  Miss Campbell always was absolutely plain -- but extremely elegant and amiable . ''  In another moment a happier sight caught her ; -- Mr. Knightley leading Harriet to the set ! -- Never had she been more surprized , seldom more delighted , than at that instant .  `` What is the matter with Brandon ? ''  `` You are in luck. -- Your only blunder was confined to my ear , when you imagined a certain friend of ours in love with the lady . ''  In half an hour the arrowroot was returned , with a thousand thanks from Miss Bates , but `` dear Jane would not be satisfied without its being sent back ; it was a thing she could not take -- and , moreover , she insisted on her saying , that she was not at all in want of any thing . ''  Depend upon it , that was the case : and very likely to happen with the Donwell servants , who are all , I have often observed , extremely awkward and remiss. -- I am sure I would not have such a creature as his Harry stand at our sideboard for any consideration .  But the industrious man ran after the lovely lady and caught the hem of her floating robe in his grasp .  Edward made no answer ; but when she had turned away her head , gave her a look so serious , so earnest , so uncheerful , as seemed to say , that he might hereafter wish the distance between the parsonage and the mansion-house much greater .  What she would engage to do towards augmenting their income was next to be considered ; and here it plainly appeared , that though Edward was now her only son , he was by no means her eldest ; for while Robert was inevitably endowed with a thousand pounds a-year , not the smallest objection was made against Edward 's taking orders for the sake of two hundred and fifty at the utmost ; nor was anything promised either for the present or in future , beyond the ten thousand pounds , which had been given with Fanny .  He looked very well , not as if he had been suffering in health or spirits , and he talked of Uppercross , of the Musgroves , nay , even of Louisa , and had even a momentary look of his own arch significance as he named her ; but yet it was Captain Wentworth not comfortable , not easy , not able to feign that he was .  Her breath , her skin , her lips , all flattered Elinor with signs of amendment ; and Marianne fixed her eyes on her with a rational , though languid , gaze .  `` Make a light , old Moon !  Her spirits wanted the solitude and silence which only numbers could give .  They continued together with unabated regard however , till the marriage of Miss Campbell , who by that chance , that luck which so often defies anticipation in matrimonial affairs , giving attraction to what is moderate rather than to what is superior , engaged the affections of Mr. Dixon , a young man , rich and agreeable , almost as soon as they were acquainted ; and was eligibly and happily settled , while Jane Fairfax had yet her bread to earn .  `` Gr-r-r-r !  These were her internal persuasions : `` Old fashioned notions ; country hospitality ; we do not profess to give dinners ; few people in Bath do ; Lady Alicia never does ; did not even ask her own sister 's family , though they were here a month : and I dare say it would be very inconvenient to Mrs Musgrove ; put her quite out of her way .  I know they will ; but I am sure I would not do such a thing for all the world. -- 'La ! '  But the little door was locked , and the little Red Man had the key .  Very sincerely did Emma wish to do so ; but it was not immediately in her power .  Mr. Elton and I are very good friends , and nothing more ; '' and she walked on , amusing herself in the consideration of the blunders which often arise from a partial knowledge of circumstances , of the mistakes which people of high pretensions to judgment are for ever falling into ; and not very well pleased with her brother for imagining her blind and ignorant , and in want of counsel .  When he arrived , he engaged workmen and began to build the court .  Then there was a great crash which made everybody turn to look the other way .  Emma had not another word to oppose .  That will be a much better thing .  It is early . ''  `` Jane caught a bad cold , poor thing !  They had their great cousins , to be sure , to resort to for comfort ; but they must long feel that to flatter and follow others , without being flattered and followed in turn , is but a state of half enjoyment .  And then , her reserve -- I never could attach myself to any one so completely reserved . ''  `` Once , '' said the man , `` our band broke into a convent garden and stole away one of the nuns , to sell as a slave or to keep for a ransom .  You see he can not put the card out of his hand . ''  A beloved home made over to others ; all the precious rooms and furniture , groves , and prospects , beginning to own other eyes and other limbs !  The quarter of an hour brought her punctually to the white gate again ; and Miss Smith receiving her summons , was with her without delay , and unattended by any alarming young man .  `` Oh !  Emma remained in a state of vexation too ; but there was more indistinctness in the causes of her 's , than in his .  So he was a cock-a-doo-dle-doo .  It grew more and more shadowy .  The present crisis , indeed , seemed to be brought on by them ; and those misunderstandings might very possibly arise from the impropriety of his conduct . ''  It was impossible for any one to be more thoroughly good-natured , or more determined to be happy than Mrs. Palmer .  There are on both sides good principles and good temper . ''  CHAPTER 1  [ Illustration : Reddy glared across the Smiling Pool at Peter .  Prince Cherry had been struck by lightning and killed , was the news , and the five favourite courtiers had struggled to make themselves rulers , but the people had refused them , and offered the crown to Suliman , the good old tutor .  `` Perhaps Miss Fairfax has never been staying here so long before . ''  Elinor smiled , and shook her head .  He does not care about Jane Fairfax .  I know he had horses to-day -- for we arrived together ; and I laughed at him about it , but he said not a word that could betray . ''  Her heart beat quick on hearing Harriet 's footstep and voice ; so , she supposed , had poor Mrs. Weston felt when _she_ was approaching Randalls .  Blacky doubted because he knew Farmer Brown 's boy so well that he could n't imagine him afraid .  Why would you be persuaded by my uncle , Sir Robert , against your own judgment , to place Edward under private tuition , at the most critical time of his life ?  Harriet looked grave .  Her former apprehensions , now with greater reason restored , left her no doubt of the event ; and though trying to speak comfort to Elinor , her conviction of her sister 's danger would not allow her to offer the comfort of hope .  Two minutes after her entering the room , Captain Wentworth said --  But it was not a merely selfish caution , under which she acted , in putting an end to it .  Miss Woodhouse , how kind you are ! -- I suppose you have heard -- and are come to give us joy .  I wish he 'd fall in and get drowned ! ''  She was always quick and assured : Isabella slow and diffident .  Emma could not think it too soon ; for with all his good and agreeable qualities , there was a sort of parade in his speeches which was very apt to incline her to laugh .  Immediately Saul sent for him .  to look on , while repeated attentions were offering to another woman , before her face , and not resent it. -- That is a degree of placidity , which I can neither comprehend nor respect . ''  `` I think you are very likely to suffer the most of the two ; your feelings are less reconciled to the change than mine .  His disapprobation was expressed , but apparently very little regarded .  Marianne felt for her most sincerely ; but she did more harm than good to the cause , by turning very red and saying in an angry manner to Margaret ,  Elinor honoured her for a plan which originated so nobly as this ; though smiling to see the same eager fancy which had been leading her to the extreme of languid indolence and selfish repining , now at work in introducing excess into a scheme of such rational employment and virtuous self-control .  We are growing a little too nice .  Give me your little useless hands . ''  How is Miss Fairfax ? -- I hope she caught no cold last night .  He looked , as he spoke , to the seat which Mrs Clay had been lately occupying : a sufficient explanation of what he particularly meant ; and though Anne could not believe in their having the same sort of pride , she was pleased with him for not liking Mrs Clay ; and her conscience admitted that his wishing to promote her father 's getting great acquaintance was more than excusable in the view of defeating her .  Would either of them only have given her a full and minute account of the whole affair between Marianne and Mr. Willoughby , she would have thought herself amply rewarded for the sacrifice of the best place by the fire after dinner , which their arrival occasioned .  `` Well , sir , '' said Mrs. Jennings , `` and how did it end ? ''  `` Good-bye , Brother , '' he said .  `` You will see them yet , perhaps , before the morning is gone .  In that case , so liable as every body was to meet every body in Bath , Lady Russell would in all likelihood see him somewhere .  She caught every syllable with panting eagerness ; her hand , unknowingly to herself , closely pressed her sister 's , and tears covered her cheeks .  but they ought to call upon you as soon as possible .  And fearest thou because I vanish and am seen no more .  I am sure Miss Fairfax must have found the evening pleasant , Emma .  Tell me what it is , explain the grounds on which you acted , and I shall be satisfied , in being able to satisfy you .  You may guess how readily he came into my wishes ; and having his approbation , I made my way directly to Miss Bates , to assure her that the carriage would be at her service before it took us home ; for I thought it would be making her comfortable at once .  My regard for Hartfield is most warm '' --  If all took place that might take place among the circle of her friends , Hartfield must be comparatively deserted ; and she left to cheer her father with the spirits only of ruined happiness .  I have loved none but you .  With the greatest respect , and the warmest friendship , do I mention Miss Woodhouse ; my father perhaps will think I ought to add , with the deepest humiliation. -- A few words which dropped from him yesterday spoke his opinion , and some censure I acknowledge myself liable to. -- My behaviour to Miss Woodhouse indicated , I believe , more than it ought. -- In order to assist a concealment so essential to me , I was led on to make more than an allowable use of the sort of intimacy into which we were immediately thrown. -- I can not deny that Miss Woodhouse was my ostensible object -- but I am sure you will believe the declaration , that had I not been convinced of her indifference , I would not have been induced by any selfish views to go on. -- Amiable and delightful as Miss Woodhouse is , she never gave me the idea of a young woman likely to be attached ; and that she was perfectly free from any tendency to being attached to me , was as much my conviction as my wish. -- She received my attentions with an easy , friendly , goodhumoured playfulness , which exactly suited me .  `` Now I wonder who was so thoughtful as to leave this fine breakfast ready for me , '' said he out loud .  Marianne 's performance was highly applauded .  Marianne continued to mend every day , and the brilliant cheerfulness of Mrs. Dashwood 's looks and spirits proved her to be , as she repeatedly declared herself , one of the happiest women in the world .  'My dear Madam , ' I always say to her , 'you must make yourself easy .  Randalls is such a distance .  Hop , hop !  They will be all wanting a home .  `` Yes , I do .  He begged her pardon , but she must be applied to , to explain Italian again .  I am sure he was particularly silent when Mrs. Cole told us of it at dinner . ''  Poor old Mrs. Bates , civil and humble as usual , looked as if she did not quite understand what was going on .  But the family are all rich together .  [ The Adventures of Buster Bear by Thornton W. Burgess 1920 ] I BUSTER BEAR GOES FISHING Buster Bear yawned as he lay on his comfortable bed of leaves and watched the first early morning sunbeams creeping through the Green Forest to chase out the Black Shadows .  The interruption had been short , though severe , and ease and animation returned to most of those they left as the door shut them out , but not to Anne .  We have it from Frederick himself .  Well , I shall spirit up the Colonel as soon as I can .  At that , they were both so ashamed that neither would speak to the other .  `` But , upon my soul , I did NOT know it , '' he warmly replied ; `` I did not recollect that I had omitted to give her my direction ; and common sense might have told her how to find it out . ''  How to have this anxious business set to rights , and be admitted as cousins again , was the question : and it was a question which , in a more rational manner , neither Lady Russell nor Mr Elliot thought unimportant .  It went on like this until the shoemaker and his wife were prosperous people .  Once he stumbled and fell , but he scrambled to his feet in a twinkling , and away he went without once turning his head to see if Buster Bear was after him .  A large party in an hotel ensured a quick-changing , unsettled scene .  this is too much flattery .  But she remembered , and held her peace .  The Musgroves came back to receive their happy boys and girls from school , bringing with them Mrs Harville 's little children , to improve the noise of Uppercross , and lessen that of Lyme .  How could you be so insolent in your wit to a woman of her character , age , and situation ? -- Emma , I had not thought it possible . ''  I do not advise you to give way to it , Harriet .  The honour was readily granted , and he then departed , to make himself still more interesting , in the midst of a heavy rain .  She paused a few moments .  The man replied that none had .  They started fires ; they dug trenches and filled them with water ; they ran wildly about in the fields , killing what they could .  She was short , plump , and fair , with a fine bloom , blue eyes , light hair , regular features , and a look of great sweetness , and , before the end of the evening , Emma was as much pleased with her manners as her person , and quite determined to continue the acquaintance .  You need not be prompted to write with the appearance of sorrow for his disappointment . ''  `` Indeed !  `` But , my dear sir , '' cried Mr. Weston , `` if Emma comes away early , it will be breaking up the party . ''  But he judged it unnecessary : he had still something more to try , some more fresh application , of whose success he was as confident as the last , and his visit concluded with encouraging assurances which reached the ear , but could not enter the heart of Miss Dashwood .  It was his jealousy of Frank Churchill that had taken him from the country. -- The Box Hill party had decided him on going away .  `` I have an idea that something interesting may happen if Buster does n't change his mind . ''  Soon there was the sound of talk and laughter , and a train of beautiful women came down to the water 's edge .  Picture to yourselves my amazement ; I shall not easily forget Admiral Baldwin .  --  `` I am afraid we must be running away , '' said Emma , glancing at Harriet , and beginning to rise -- '' My father will be expecting us .  She could not but suppose it to be a match that every body who knew them must think of .  Continual engagements at home and abroad , however , supplied all the deficiencies of nature and education ; supported the good spirits of Sir John , and gave exercise to the good breeding of his wife .  `` TWO thousand a year !  With a blow of a big paw he sent it clattering against a tree .  The letter was from this gentleman himself , and written in the true spirit of friendly accommodation .  He slipped through and saw some stairs going down into the earth .  Say ! ''  She then broke the lace off short , and dexterously throwing it into a ditch , was presently obliged to entreat them to stop , and acknowledged her inability to put herself to rights so as to be able to walk home in tolerable comfort .  But I thought he would have staid now , and it would have been a pity not to have mentioned .  She saw him not far off .  Surely , after doing so , she can not be imagined liable to any impression of sorrow or of joy on his account -- she can not be interested in any thing that befalls him. -- She would not be so weak as to throw away the comfort of a child , and yet retain the anxiety of a parent ! ''  What do you think of him ?  But you shall hear it all. -- When I got to Mr. Palmer 's , I found Charlotte quite in a fuss about the child .  A few more to-morrows , and the party from London would be arriving .  Colonel Brandon is certainly younger than Mrs. Jennings , but he is old enough to be MY father ; and if he were ever animated enough to be in love , must have long outlived every sensation of the kind .  